Darbepoetin alfa | DrugBank Online Human erythropoietin with 2 aa substitutions to enhance glycosylation (5 N-linked chains), 165 residues (MW=37 kD). Produced in Chinese hamster ovary (CHO) cells by recombinant DNA technology. For the treatment of anemia (from renal transplants or certain HIV treatment) Darbepoetin alfa is used in the treatment of anemia. It is involved in the regulation of erythrocyte differentiation and the maintenance of a physiological level of circulating erythrocyte mass. Darbepoetin alfa stimulates erythropoiesis by the same mechanism as endogenous erythropoietin. Erythropoietin interacts with
Salmon calcitonin | DrugBank Online Synthetic peptide, 32 residues long formulated as a nasal spray. Used in the treatment of symptomatic Paget's disease for patients unresponsive to alternate treatments or intolerant to such treatments. In addition, it is used in emergency situations when serum calcium levels must be decreased quickly until the underlying condition is identified. It can also be added to existing therapeutic regimens for hypercalcemia such as intravenous fluids and furosemide, oral phosphate or corticosteroids, or other agents. Calcitonin can be used in patients with azotemia and cases where intravenous fluids would be contraindicated due to limited cardiac reserves. Also for the treatment of post-menopausal osteoporosis in women more than 5 years post-menopause.  Calcitonin inhibits bone resorption by osteoclasts (bone remodeling cells) and promotes bone formation by osteoblasts. This leads to a net increase in bone mass and a reduction in plasma calcium levels. It also promotes the renal excretion of ions such as calcium, phosphate, sodium, magnesium, and potassium by decreasing tubular reabsorption. In consequence, there is an increase in the jejunal secretion of water, sodium, potassium, and chloride. Calcitonin binds to the calcitonin receptor (found primarily in osteoclasts) which then enhances the production of vitamin D producing enzymes (25-hydroxyvitamine D-24-hydroxylase), leading to greater calcium retention and enhanced bone density. Binding of calcitonin to its receptor also activates adenylyl cyclase and the phosphatidyl-inositol-calcium pathway. Salmon calcitonin is rapidly absorbed with bioavailability of 71% following subcutaneous injection and 66% following intramuscular injection in humans. Via the nasal route, the bioavailability varies between 3 to 5% relative to IM. 0.15 to 0.3 L/kg Protein binding is about 30 to 40%. Salmon calcitonin primarily undergoes degradation in the kidneys to form pharmacologically inactive metabolites. It is also metabolized in the blood and the peripheral tissue.  Urine. Studies with injectable calcitonin show increases in the excretion of filtered phosphate, calcium, and sodium by decreasing their tubular reabsorption in the kidney. Half-life elimination (terminal): I.M. 58 minutes; SubQ 59 to 64 minutes; Nasal: ~18 to 23 minutes  Salmon calcitonin was shown to inhibit lactation in animals and is not recommend in nursing mothers. While research in animals have shown a decrease in fetal weight, no studies have yet shown similar results in humans. It is recommended however to proceed carefully when administering salmon calcitonin to pregnant women and consider if the benefits outweigh the risks. Because of its protein nature, salmon calcitonin may provoke an allergy reaction (bronchospams and swelling of the tongue/throat) that can turn into a full-blown anaphylactic response. The manufacturer also reports an increase in the risk of malignancies from oral route (0.7%) to intranasal route (2.4%) compared to placebo. The same may apply to IV, IM and SC routes since the systemic exposure is higher in those cases.
Thyrotropin alfa | DrugBank Online Thyrotropin alfa is a recombinant form of thyroid stimulating hormone used in performing certain tests in patients who have or have had thyroid cancer. It is also used along with a radioactive agent to destroy remaining thyroid tissue in certain patients who have had their thyroid gland removed because of thyroid cancer. It is a heterodimeric glycoprotein comprised of two non-covalently linked subunits, an alpha subunit of 92 amino acid residues containing two N-linked glycosylation sites and a beta subunit of 112 residues containing one N-linked glycosylation site. The alpha subunit of thyrotropin alfa, which is the effector region responsible for the stimulation of adenylate cyclase, displays close structural similarity with the alpha subunit of human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), luteinizing hormone (LH), and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). The beta subunit (TSHB) bestows its receptor specificity due to the uniqueness to TSH. The amino acid sequence of thyrotropin alfa is identical to that of human pituitary thyroid stimulating hormone. For detection of residueal or recurrent thyroid cancer Binding of thyrotropin alfa to TSH receptors on normal thyroid epithelial cells or on well-differentiated thyroid cancer tissue stimulates iodine uptake and organification. Thyrogen is an exogenous source of human TSH that offers an additional diagnostic tool in the follow-up of patients with a history of well-differentiated thyroid cancer. Thyrotropin Alfa binds to the thyrotropin receptors found on any residual thyroid cells or tissues. This stimulates radioactive iodine uptake for better radiodiagnostic imaging. Time to peak: Median: 10 hours (range: 3-24 hours)
Anakinra | DrugBank Online Anakinra is a recombinant, nonglycosylated human interleukin-1 receptor antagonist (IL-1Ra). The difference between anakinra and the native human IL-1Ra is that anakinra has an extra methionine residue at the amino terminus. It is manufactured by using the E. coli expression system. Anakinra is composed of 153 amino acid residues. FDA approved on November 14, 2001. For the treatment of adult rheumatoid arthritis and treatment of Neonatal-Onset Multisystem Inflammatory Disease (NOMID).  Used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, Anakinra blocks the biologic activity of IL-1 by competitively inhibiting IL-1 binding to the interleukin-1 type I receptor (IL-1RI), which is expressed in a wide variety of tissues and organs. IL-1 production is induced in response to inflammatory stimuli and mediates various physiologic responses including inflammatory and immunological responses. Patients with rheumatoid arthritis have elevated levels of IL-1. The levels of the naturally occurring IL-1Ra in synovium and synovial fluid from rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients are not sufficient to compete with the elevated amount of locally produced IL-1. Increasing the levels of IL-1Ra by artificial means reduces the negative effects (cartilage degradation, bone resorption) of IL-1. Anakinra binds competitively to the Interleukin-1 type I receptor (IL-1RI), thereby inhibiting the action of elevated levels IL-1 which normally can lead to cartilage degradation and bone resorption. When a 70 mg subcutaneous bolus injection is given to healthy subjects, the absolute bioavailability is 95%. Accumulation does not occur following daily subcutaneous doses.
Tmax, SubQ, 1-2 mg/kg, healthy subjects = 3-7 hours;
Cmax, SubQ, 3 mg/kg once daily, NOMID patients = 3628 ng/mL.  Healthy subjects = 4 - 6 hours;
Insulin human | DrugBank Online Human Insulin, also known as Regular Insulin, is a short-acting form of insulin used for the treatment of hyperglycemia caused by Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes. Human insulin is produced by recombinant DNA technology and is identical to endogenously produced insulin. Typically prescribed for the management of diabetes mellitus, insulin is a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas that promotes glucose metabolism. Insulin is released from the pancreas following a meal to promote the uptake of glucose from the blood into internal organs and tissues such as the liver, fat cells, and skeletal muscle. Absorption of glucose into cells allows for its transformation into glycogen or fat for storage. Insulin also inhibits hepatic glucose production, enhances protein synthesis, and inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis among many other functions. Insulin is an important treatment in the management of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) which is caused by an autoimmune reaction that destroys the beta cells of the pancreas, resulting in the body not being able to produce or synthesize the insulin needed to manage circulating blood sugar levels. As a result, people with T1D rely primarily on exogenous forms of insulin to lower glucose levels in the blood. Insulin is also used in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), another form of diabetes mellitus that is a slowly progressing metabolic disorder caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors that promote chronically elevated blood sugar levels. Without treatment or improvement in non-pharmacological measures such as diet and exercise to lower blood glucose, high blood sugar eventually causes cellular resistance to endogenous insulin, and in the long term, damage to pancreatic islet cells. Insulin is typically prescribed later in the course of T2D, after trying several oral medications such as Metformin, Gliclazide, or Sitagliptin have been tried, when sufficient damage has been caused to pancreatic cells that the body is no longer able to produce insulin on its own.  Marketed as the brand name product Humulin R or Novolin R, human insulin begins to exert its effects within 30 minutes of subcutaneous administration, while peak levels occur 3-4 hours after administration. Due to its quick onset of action, human insulin is considered "bolus insulin" as it provides high levels of insulin in a short period of time to mimic the release of endogenous insulin from the pancreas after meals. Bolus insulin is often combined with once daily, long-acting "basal insulin" such as Insulin detemir, Insulin degludec, and Insulin glargine to provide low concentrations of background insulin that can keep blood sugar stable between meals or overnight. Use of basal and bolus insulin together is intended to mimic the pancreas' production of endogenous insulin, with a goal of avoiding any periods of hypoglycemia. Human insulin is also available in an inhalable form, intended to be used as a bolus meal-time insulin. Exubera was the first inhaled insulin available on the market and was developed by Inhale Therapeutics (later named Nektar Therapeutics). Unfortunately, limited uptake by physicians and patients, poor sales, bulky packaging, and concerns over the possible impact on lung cancer development resulted in Exubera products being withdrawn from the US markets 6. Exubera was followed by Afrezza, a monomeric inhaled insulin developed by Mannkind Corporation, which received FDA approval in 2016. While still available in the US, Afrezza has had similar concerns associated with its use, and had an FDA "black box" warning added to it to warn about use in patients with chronic lung disease. Afrezza does not currently have Health Canada or European Medicines Agency approval for marketing in Canada or the EU.  Human Insulin is a 51 residue peptide hormone produced by recombinant DNA technology by inserting the human insulin gene into Escherichia coli bacteria or Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The structure is identical to native human insulin, with two amino acid chains covalently linked by disulfide bonds.  Human insulin is also available in an intermediate-acting form as NPH (Neutral Protamine Hagedorn) as the marketed products Novolin N and Humulin N. NPH insulin is provided as a crystalline suspension of insulin with protamine and zinc, resulting in an onset of action in 1 to 3 hours, duration of action up to 24 hours, and peak action from 6 to 8 hours. Due to the added crystals, NPH insulin is typically cloudy when compared to other forms of insulin and has a neutral pH. Without an adequate supply of insulin to promote absorption of glucose from the bloodstream, blood sugar levels can climb to dangerously high levels and can result in symptoms such as fatigue, headache, blurred vision, and increased thirst. If left untreated, the body starts to break down fat, instead of glucose, for energy which results in a build-up of ketone acids in the blood and a syndrome called ketoacidosis, which is a life-threatening medical emergency. In the long term, elevated blood sugar levels increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, and diabetic neuropathy. Human insulin is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus. Insulin is a natural hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas. In non-diabetic individuals, a basal level of insulin is supplemented with insulin spikes following meals. Postprandial insulin spikes are responsible for the metabolic changes that occur as the body transitions from a postabsorptive to absorptive state. Insulin promotes cellular uptake of glucose, particularly in muscle and adipose tissues, promotes energy storage via glycogenesis, opposes catabolism of energy stores, increases DNA replication and protein synthesis by stimulating amino acid uptake by liver, muscle and adipose tissue, and modifies the activity of numerous enzymes involved in glycogen synthesis and glycolysis. Insulin also promotes growth and is required for the actions of growth hormone (e.g. protein synthesis, cell division, DNA synthesis).  The primary activity of insulin is the regulation of glucose metabolism. Insulin promotes glucose and amino acid uptake into muscle and adipose tissues, and other tissues except brain and liver. It also has an anabolic role in stimulating glycogen, fatty acid, and protein synthesis. Insulin inhibits gluconeogenesis in the liver.
Tenecteplase | DrugBank Online Tenecteplase is a tissue plasminogen activator (tPA) developed from modifications of natural human tPA complementary DNA (cDNA). It is a 527 amino acid with a substitution of threonine 103 with asparagine and substitution of asparagine 117 with glutamine within the kringle 1 domain, and a tetra-alanine substitution at amino acids 296-299 in the protease domain. For treatment of myocardial infarction and lysis of intracoronary emboli Tenecteplase is a fibrin-specific tissue-plasminogen activator. It binds to fibrin rich clots and cleaves the Arg/Val bond in plasminogen to form plasmin. Plasmin in turn degrades the fibrin matrix of the thrombus, thereby exerting its thrombolytic action. This helps eliminate blood clots or arterial blockages that cause myocardial infarction. Tenecteplase binds to fibrin rich clots via the fibronectin finger-like domain and the Kringle 2 domain. The protease domain then cleaves the Arg/Val bond in plasminogen to form plasmin. Plasmin in turn degrades the fibrin matrix of the thrombus, thereby exerting its thrombolytic action.  1.9 hours (mammalian reticulocytes, in vitro)
>20 hours (yeast, in vivo)
Interferon gamma-1b | DrugBank Online Human Interferon gamma-1b (140 residues), produced from E. coli. Production of Actimmune is achieved by fermentation of a genetically engineered Escherichia coli bacterium containing the DNA which encodes for the human protein. Purification of the product is achieved by conventional column chromatography.
Desmopressin | DrugBank Online Desmopressin (dDAVP), a synthetic analogue of 8-arginine vasopressin (ADH), is an antidiuretic peptide drug modified by deamination of 1-cysteine and substitution of 8-L-arginine by 8-D-arginine. ADH is an endogenous pituitary hormone that has a crucial role in the control of the water content in the body. Upon release from the stimulation of increased plasma osmolarity or decreased circulating blood volume, ADH mainly acts on the cells of the distal part of the nephron and the collecting tubules in the kidney 6. The hormone interacts with V1, V2 or V3 receptors with differing signal cascade systems. Desmopressin displays enhanced antidiuretic potency, fewer pressor effects due to V2-selective actions, and a prolonged half-life and duration of action compared to endogenous ADH 2. It has been employed clinically since 1972 and is available in various formulations including intranasal solution, intravenous solution, oral tablet and oral lyophilisate 3. Desmopressin is indicated for the treatment of polyuric conditions including primary nocturnal enuresis, nocturia, and diabetes insipidus. It was also newly approved for the treatment of mild classical hemophilia and von Willebrand's disease for minor surgeries. The active ingredient in most formulations is desmopressin acetate. Nocdurna, or desmopressin acetate, was approved by the FDA on June 21st, 2018 for the treatment of nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria in adults. It is available as a sublingual tablet. Indicated for the treatment of nocturia due to nocturnal polyuria in adults who awaken at least 2 times per night to void (intranasal).  Indicated as antidiuretic replacement therapy in the management of central cranial diabetes insipidus and for management of the temporary polyuria and polydipsia following head trauma or surgery in the pituitary region (intranasal/parenteral). Indicated for patients with hemophilia A with factor VIII coagulant activity levels greater than 5% or mild to moderate classic von Willebrand's Disease (Type I) with factor VIII levels greater than 5% during surgical procedures and postoperatively to maintain hemostasis (parenteral). By mimicking the actions of endogenous ADH, desmopressin acts as a selective agonist of V2 receptors expressed in the renal collecting duct (CD) to increase water re-absorption and reduce urine production. Desmopressin has been shown to be more potent than ADH in increasing plasma levels of factor VIII activity in patients with hemophilia and von Willebrand's disease Type I 8. Desmopressin demonstrates markedly diminished pressor activity. Desmopressin administered intranasally has an antidiuretic effect about one-tenth that of an equivalent dose administered by injection 7. Upon binding of desmopressin to V2 receptors in the basolateral membrane of the cells of the distal tubule and collecting ducts of the nephron, adenylyl cyclase is stimulated. The resulting intracellular cascades in the collecting duct lead to increased rate of insertion of water channels, called aquaporins, into the lumenal membrane and enhanced the permeability of the membrane to water 6.  Following nasal spray administration of 0.83 mcg and 1.66 mcg, median time to peak plasma concentrations (Tmax) was 0.25 and 0.75 hour, respectively Label. The peak plasma concentration was approximately 4.00 (± 3.85) pg/mL and 9.11 (± 6.90) pg/mL, respectively Label. The bioavailability of 1.5 mg/mL desmopressin administered by the intranasal route was between 3.3 and 4.1% 8. The absolute bioavailability of orally administered desmopressin varies between 0.08% and 0.16% where the mean maximum plasma concentration is reached within 2 hours 9. The distribution volume of orally administered desmopressin is 0.2 – 0.32 l/kg 9. It is not reported to cross the blood-brain barrier. Following radioiodination (125I) in the N-terminal, the fraction of plasma protein binding of desmopressin was reported to be 17.3 ± 1.5% in a pharmacokinetic study involving healthy subjects 5.  In vitro, in human liver microsome preparations, it has been shown that no significant amount of desmopressin is metabolised in the liver and thus human liver metabolism in vivo is not likely to occur 9. Desmopressin is mainly excreted in the urine. About 65% of the amount of desmopressin absorbed after oral administration
Omalizumab | DrugBank Online Omalizumab, manufactured by Genentech, was first FDA approved in 2003 to treat adults and children 12 years of age and older with moderate to severe persistent allergic asthma which is not controlled by inhaled steroids 6. Since its U.S. approval, more than 200,000 patients older than 12 with allergic asthma have been treated 6. In September 2018, a new prefilled syringe formulation of this drug was approved by the FDA 7. This drug is an anti-IgE antibody indicated for: Moderate to severe persistent asthma in patients 6 years of age and older
with a positive skin test or in vitro reactivity to a perennial aeroallergen and symptoms that are inadequately controlled with inhaled corticosteroids Label Chronic idiopathic urticaria in adults and adolescents 12 years of age and older who remain symptomatic despite H1 antihistamine treatment Label Omalizumab is a recombinant, humanized, monoclonal antibody against human immunoglobulin E (IgE) which treats the symptoms of asthma and chronic idiopathic urticaria by limiting the allergic response Label, 3. It inhibits the binding of IgE to receptors on mast cells and basophils, blocking the IgE-mediated secretion of inflammatory mediators from these cells 1. Mast cell activation and the release of mediators, in response to allergen exposure and IgE, results in a cascade of events. This cascade culminates in the activation of B-lymphocytes, T-lymphocytes, eosinophils, fibroblasts, smooth muscle cells, and the endothelium. This cellular interaction, as well as the release of cytokines, chemokines and growth factors and inflammatory remodeling of the airway results in chronic asthma 2. After 4 weeks of use of this medication in patients with chronic urticaria, it was found that rescue medication use was reduced significantly and quality of life improved 4. When an environmental allergen first enters the body, is taken up by antigen-presenting cells (APCs). It is then processed, and presented to T and B immune cells. This is followed by the activation of B-lymphocyte and production of allergen-specific IgE. This IgE is then released by plasma cells (converted B lymphocytes) and is therefore available to bind to IgE receptors on several other cells 3. IgE binds to high-affinity (Fc€RI) and low-affinity (Fc€RII) receptors on multiple cells of the immune system. Following subsequent antigen exposure, cross-linking of the antigen occurs by several Fc€RI-bound IgE molecules on the surface of both basophils and mast cells. This leads to the activation of mast cells and histamine release, producing a wheal and other symptoms of urticaria 3. The following are explanations of the mechanism of action for both indications of this drug: Asthma Omalizumab inhibits the binding of IgE to the high-affinity IgE receptor (FcεRI) on the surface of both mast cells and basophils. The reduction in surface-bound IgE on FcεRI-bearing cells limits the degree of release of mediators of the typical allergic response. Treatment with omalizumab also reduces the number of FcεRI receptors on basophils in atopic patients Label. Omalizumab binds to free IgE with a higher affinity than IgE itself binds to the high-affinity Fc€RI receptors found on basophils. Therefore, it decreases the availability of free IgE for binding 3. Omalizumab by itself does not bind to the Fc€RI receptors, nor does the drug bind to receptor-bound IgE. These binding characteristics allow omalizumab to neutralize the typical IgE-mediated responses without causing the degranulation of basophils or cross-linking with basophil-bound IgE 3. Chronic Idiopathic Urticaria
Omalizumab binds to IgE and decreases free IgE levels. Subsequently, IgE receptors (FcεRI) on cells are down-regulated. The mechanism by which these effects of omalizumab result in an improvement of CIU symptoms is unclearLabel. After subcutaneous administration in pharmacokinetic studies, omalizumab was absorbed with a mean absolute bioavailability of 62% Label. After the administration of a single subcutanous dose in adult and adolescent patients with asthma, omalizumab was absorbed slowly. The peak serum concentrations peaked after an average of 7­-8 days. In patients with CIU, the peak serum concentration was reached at a similar time after a single SC dose. The pharmacokinetics of omalizumab was linear at doses which were higher than 0.5 mg/kg. In patients with asthma, after several doses of omalizumab, areas under the serum concentration-time curve from Day 0 to Day 14 at steady state were up to 6-fold of those after one dose. In patients with CIU, omalizumab showed linear pharmacokinetics in the dose range of 75 mg to 600 mg administered as a single subcutaneous dose. After repeated dosing from 75mg-300 mg every 4 weeks, trough serum concentrations of omalizumab increased proportionally with the dose Label. The apparent volume of distribution of omalizumab in patients with asthma after subcutaneous administration was 78 ± 32 mL/kg. In patients with CIU, the distribution of omalizumab was similar to that in asthmatic patients Label. Monoclonal antibodies are usually not required to have protein binding studies. Monoclonal antibodies, in general, are believed to be internalized in endothelial cells bound to the Fc receptor and rescued from metabolism by recycling. At a later time, they are degraded in the reticuloendothelial system to smaller peptides and amino acids, which can then be used for de-novo protein synthesis 5. Several factors may influence this process, however. These include factors related to the target antigen, antibody, and patient 5. The metabolism of omalizumab is determined by its IgG1 framework, and by its specific binding to IgE. The elimination of omalizumab is dose-dependent. The reticuloendothelial system and the liver are two sites of elimination for IgG (including degradation in the liver reticuloendothelial system and endothelial cells) 9, 5. The omalizumab:IgE complexes are thought to be to cleared via interactions with Fc- gamma-Rs (Fc gamma RI, Fc gamma RII, and Fc gamma RIII) at rates that are more rapid than that of IgG clearance. The relative clearance of free omalizumab, free IgE, and complexes is summarized as: free IgE clearance > > omalizumab:IgE clearance > omalizumab clearance 9. Liver elimination of IgG includes degradation in the liver reticuloendothelial system (RES) and endothelial cells.
Insulin lispro | DrugBank Online Insulin lispro is a rapid-acting form of insulin used for the treatment of hyperglycemia caused by Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes. Insulin is prescribed for the management of diabetes mellitus to mimic the activity of endogenously produced human insulin, a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas that promotes glucose metabolism. Insulin is released from the pancreas following a meal to promote the uptake of glucose from the blood into internal organs and tissues such as the liver, fat cells, and skeletal muscle. Absorption of glucose into cells allows for its transformation into glycogen or fat for storage. Insulin also inhibits hepatic glucose production, enhances protein synthesis, and inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis among many other functions. Insulin is an important treatment in the management of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) which is caused by an autoimmune reaction that destroys the beta cells of the pancreas, resulting in the body not being able to produce the insulin needed to manage circulating blood sugar levels. As a result, people with T1D rely primarily on exogenous forms of insulin, such as insulin lispro, to lower glucose levels in the blood. Insulin is also used in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), another form of diabetes mellitus that is a slowly progressing metabolic disorder caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors that promote chronically elevated blood sugar levels. Without treatment or improvement in non-pharmacological measures such as diet and exercise to lower blood glucose, high blood sugar eventually cause cellular resistance to endogenous insulin, and in the long term, damage to pancreatic islet cells. Insulin is typically prescribed later in the course of T2D, after several oral medications such as Metformin, Gliclazide, or Sitagliptin have been tried, and when sufficient damage has been caused to pancreatic cells that the body is no longer able to produce insulin on its own.  Marketed as the brand name product Humalog, insulin lispro begins to exert its effects within 15 minutes of subcutaneous administration, while peak levels occur 30 to 90 minutes after administration. Due to its duration of action of around 5 hours, Humalog is considered "bolus insulin" as it provides high levels of insulin in a short period of time to mimic the release of endogenous insulin from the pancreas after meals. Bolus insulin is often combined with once daily, long-acting "basal insulin" such as Insulin detemir, Insulin degludec, or Insulin glargine to provide low concentrations of background insulin that can keep blood sugar stable between meals or overnight. Use of basal and bolus insulin together is intended to mimic the pancreas' production of endogenous insulin, with a goal of avoiding any periods of hypoglycemia. Insulin lispro is produced by recombinant DNA technology utilizing a non-pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli and was the first commercially available insulin analog. Formerly called LYSPRO from the chemical nomenclature [LYS(B28), PRO(B29)], insulin lispro differs from human insulin in that the amino acid proline at position B28 is replaced by lysine and the lysine in position B29 is replaced by proline. These biochemical changes result in a reduced tendency for self-association resulting in dissolution to a dimer and then to a monomer that is absorbed more rapidly after subcutaneous injection compared to endogenous human insulin.  Without an adequate supply of insulin to promote absorption of glucose from the bloodstream, blood sugar levels can climb to dangerously high levels and can result in symptoms such as fatigue, headache, blurred vision, and increased thirst. If left untreated, the body starts to break down fat, instead of glucose, for energy which results in a build-up of ketone acids in the blood and a syndrome called ketoacidosis, which is a life-threatening medical emergency. In the long term, elevated blood sugar levels increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, and diabetic neuropathy. Insulin lispro is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and children with diabetes mellitus.  Insulin is a natural hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas. In non-diabetic individuals, a basal level of insulin is supplemented with insulin spikes following meals. Increased insulin secretion following meals is responsible for the metabolic changes that occur as the body transitions from a postabsorptive to absorptive state. Insulin promotes cellular uptake of glucose, particularly in muscle and adipose tissues, promotes energy storage via glycogenesis, opposes catabolism of energy stores, increases DNA replication and protein synthesis by stimulating amino acid uptake by liver, muscle and adipose tissue, and modifies the activity of numerous enzymes involved in glycogen synthesis and glycolysis. Insulin also promotes growth and is required for the actions of growth hormone (e.g. protein synthesis, cell division, DNA synthesis). Insulin lispro is a rapid-acting insulin analogue used to mimic postprandial insulin spikes in diabetic individuals. The onset of action of insulin lispro is 10-15 minutes. Its activity peaks 60 minutes following subcutaneous injection and its duration of action is 4-5 hours. Compared to regular human insulin, insulin lispro has a more rapid onset of action and a shorter duration of action. Insulin lispro is also shown to be equipotent to human insulin on a molar basis.  Insulin lispro binds to the insulin receptor (IR), a heterotetrameric protein consisting of two extracellular alpha units and two transmembrane beta units. The binding of insulin to the alpha subunit of IR stimulates the tyrosine kinase activity intrinsic to the beta subunit of the receptor. The bound receptor autophosphorylates and phosphorylates numerous intracellular substrates such as insulin receptor substrates (IRS) proteins, Cbl, APS, Shc and Gab 1. Activation of these proteins leads to the activation of downstream signaling molecules including PI3 kinase and Akt. Akt regulates the activity of glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) and protein kinase C (PKC), both of which play critical roles in metabolism and catabolism. In humans, insulin is stored in the form of hexamers; however, only insulin monomers are able to interact with IR. Reversal of the proline and lysine residues at positions B28 and B29 of native insulin eliminates hydrophobic interactions and weakens some of the hydrogen bonds that contribute to the stability of the insulin dimers that comprise insulin hexamers. Hexamers of insulin lispro are produced in the presence of zinc and m-cresol. These weakly associated hexamers quickly dissociate upon subcutaneous injection and are absorbed as monomers through vascular endothelial cells. These properties give insulin lispro its fast-acting properties.  Insulin lispro is rapidly absorbed following subcutaneous administration. It is also absorbed more quickly than regular human insulin. Peak serum levels occur 30-90 minutes after injection in healthy subjects. Absorption also differs depending on the site of injection. After insulin lispro was administered in the abdomen, serum drug levels were higher and the duration of action was slightly shorter than after deltoid or thigh administration. The absolute bioavailability after subcutaneous injection ranges from 55% to 77% with doses between 0.1 to 0.2 unit/kg, inclusive.
Collagenase clostridium histolyticum | DrugBank Online Collagenase clostridium histolyticum is an enzyme produced by the bacterium Clostridium histolyticum. It is beneficial in the breakdown of collagen plaques for the treatment of Dupuytren's contracture and Peyronie's disease.11 The topical formulation is used for the debridement of necrotic tissue due to burns or chronic ulcers.14 On July 6, 2020 a combination of injectable bacterial collagenases was approved by the FDA for the treatment of cellulite in adult women.10 Also known as Qwo, this injection is the first approved injectable treatment for cellulite and was developed by Endo International.13 Collagenase clostridium histolyticum is indicated for the treatment of adults with Dupuytren's contracture with a palpable cord. Additionally, it is used to treat men with Peyronie's disease diagnosed with a penile curvature deformity of at least a 30-degree angle at the beginning of therapy in addition to palpable plaques.11 Collagenase ointment is used for the tissue debridement of chronic dermal ulcers and severely burned tissues.15
The combination collagenase product, also known as Qwo, is used for the treatment of moderate to severe cellulite in the buttocks of adult women.10 Collagenase digests collagen, treating conditions such as Peyronie's disease, cellulite, chronic ulcers, burns, and contractures.10,11,14 Peyronie's disease is a fibrous lesion of the tunica albuginea in the penile tissues.4 Cellulite is a multifactorial condition resulting in the accumulation of fibrotic dermal septae and the expansion of subcutaneous fat.3 Dupuytren's contracture is a fibroproliferative disease that results in the fibrous deposition of collagen in the hands, limiting mobility and functionality of the hands.5 The collagen deposition in the abovementioned conditions is the target of collagenase enzyme therapy.6,7 These enzymes are proteinases acting to hydrolyze collagen's triple-helical conformation, resulting in the lysis of collagen deposits and relief from the necrotic tissue and plaques associated with several conditions.11,14 On a molecular level, collagenases cleave polypeptide chains that make up the collagen triple helix structure at various loci, leading to solubilization from the collagen fibril.8 There is currently limited readily available regarding the absorption of collagenase through the skin.14
Adalimumab | DrugBank Online Adalimumab is a subcutaneously administered biological disease modifier for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and other chronic debilitating diseases mediated by tumor necrosis factor 2, 3. It was originally launched by Abbvie in the U.S. and approved in 2002 by the FDA 1. This drug is frequently known as Humira. It is produced by recombinant DNA technology using a mammalian cell expression system. This drug is available in a prefilled syringe form and convenient pen form for subcutaneous self-administered doses 1. A new biosimilar to adalimumab, named adalimumab-adaz, was approved by the FDA on October 31, 2018. This biosimilar is known as Hyrimoz, and is a trademark of Novartis AG 9. The following are conditions for which adalimumab has been indicated 12, Label, 10, 5, 6, 11.  Rheumatoid Arthritis (Moderate to Severe) Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (Moderately to Severely Active) Psoriatic Arthritis (Active) Ankylosing Spondylitis (Active) Crohn’s Disease (Moderately to Severely Active) Ulcerative Colitis (Moderately to Severely Active) Plaque Psoriasis (Moderate to Severe Chronic) Non-infectious Intermediate, Posterior and Panuveitis Hidradenitis Suppurativa (Moderate to Severe) Pyoderma Gangrenosum (off-label) After treatment with adalimumab, a decrease in levels of acute phase reactant proteins of inflammation (C­ reactive protein [CRP] and erythrocyte sedimentation rate [ESR]) and serum cytokines (IL-6) was measured compared to baseline in patients diagnosed with rheumatoid arthritis. A decrease in CRP levels was also observed in patients diagnosed with Crohn’s disease. Serum levels of matrix metalloproteinases (MMP-1 and MMP-3) that lead to the tissue remodeling responsible for cartilage destruction were also found to be decreased after administration of adalimumab 12, Label. A reduction in signs and symptoms of disease, the induction of a clinical response, an inhibition of structural damage, and improvements in physical function in adult and pediatric patients with various inflammatory conditions have been demonstrated 1, 3, Label. Adalimumab binds with specificity to tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-alpha) 2, 3 and inhibits its interaction with the p55 and p75 cell surface TNF receptors. Adalimumab also lyses surface tumor necrosis factor expressing cells in vitro when in the presence of complement. Adalimumab does not bind or inactivate lymphotoxin (Tumor necrosis factor-beta). TNF is a naturally occurring cytokine that plays a role in normal inflammatory and immune responses 3. Increased levels of TNF are found in the joint synovial fluid of rheumatoid arthritis, psoriatic arthritis, and ankylosing spondylitis patients, and play an imperative role in pathologic inflammation and the joint destruction that are major complications of these diseases. Increased levels of TNF are also measured in psoriasis plaques. In plaque psoriasis, treatment with adalimumab may decrease the epidermal thickness and inflammatory cell infiltration. The relationship between these pharmacodynamics and the mechanism(s) by which adalimumab achieves its clinical effects is not known. Additionally, adalimumab alters biological responses that are induced/regulated by TNF, including changes in the levels of adhesion molecules responsible for leukocyte migration during inflammation (ELAM-1, VCAM-1, and ICAM-1 with an IC50 of 1-2 X 10-10M) 12. The maximum serum concentration (Cmax) and the time to reach the maximum concentration (Tmax) were 4.7 ± 1.6 μg/mL and 131 ± 56 hours respectively, following a single 40 mg subcutaneous administration of adalimumab to healthy adult subjects. The average absolute bioavailability of adalimumab estimated from three clinical studies after a single 40 mg subcutaneous dose of adalimumab was 64%. The pharmacokinetics of adalimumab showed a linear pattern over the dose range of 0.5 to 10.0 mg/kg following a single intravenous dose 12. The distribution volume (Vss) ranged from 4.7-6.0 L 12.
Adalimumab concentrations in the synovial fluid from five rheumatoid arthritis patients ranged from 31-96% of those in serum 12. Most likely removed by opsonization via the reticuloendothelial system 7. The mean terminal half-life was approximately 2 weeks, ranging from 10 to 20 days across studies 12. 12 mL/hr [RA patients with dose 0.25-10 mg/kg] 12.
Drotrecogin alfa | DrugBank Online Drotrecogin alfa is activated human protein C that is synthesized by recombinant DNA technology. It is a glycoprotein of approximately 55 kilodalton molecular weight, consisting of a heavy chain and a light chain linked by a disulfide bond. Drotrecogin alfa was withdrawn from the market after a major study indicated that it was not effective in improving outcomes in patients with sepsis. For reduction of mortality in patients with severe sepsis. Drotrecogin alfa is activated human protein C that is synthesized by recombinant DNA technology. It is a glycoprotein of approximately 55 kilodalton molecular weight, consisting of a heavy chain and a light chain linked by a disulfide bond.
Pegaspargase | DrugBank Online Pegylated L-asparagine amidohydrolase from E. coli. Pegylation substantially (by a factor of 4) extends the protein half life. For treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia In a significant number of patients with acute leukemia, the malignant cells are dependent on an exogenous source of asparagine for survival. Normal cells, however, are able to synthesize asparagine and thus are affected less by the rapid depletion produced by treatment with the enzyme asparaginase. Oncaspar exploits a metabolic defect in asparagine synthesis of some malignant cells. Pegaspargase, more effective than asparaginase, converts asparagine to aspartic acid and ammonia. It facilitates production of oxaloacetate which is needed for general cellular metabolism. Some malignant cells lose the ability to produce asparagine and so the loss of exogenous sources of asparagine leads to cell death. Onset of Asparagine depletion by IM is within 4 days
Time to peak: IM: 3 to 4 days IV: Adults (asparaginase naive): 2.4 L/m2
Albumin human | DrugBank Online Human serum albumin is the primary protein present in human blood plasma. The main function of albumin is to maintain the oncotic pressure of blood 2. It binds to water, cations (such as Ca2+, Na+ and K+), fatty acids, hormones, bilirubin, thyroxine (T4) and pharmaceuticals (including barbiturates). Albumin represents approximately 50% of the total protein content in healthy humans 5. Human albumin is a small globular protein (molecular weight: 66.5 kDa), consisting of a single chain of 585 amino acids organized in three repeated homolog domains (sites I, II, and III). Each domain comprises two separate sub-domains (A and B) 5.  There are various preparations of albumin that are well established and widely available in the clinical setting 9, 10, 6. Also known as Albuminex 5% or 25%, one brand of human serum albumin is prepared from the pooled plasma of US donors in FDA-licensed facilities in the US 12. This is a biosimilar drug to existing human serum albumin and was approved for a biological license at both 5% and 25% concentrations by the FDA on June 21, 2018 6. Albuminex solution is indicated for adults and children for hypovolemia, ascites, hypoalbuminemia including from burns, acute nephrosis, acute respiratory distress syndrome and cardipulmonary bypass 12. Serum albumin is a soluble, monomeric protein essential for maintaining and regulating the colloidal osmotic pressure of blood. It is utilized to increase the circulating plasma volume, which reduces hemoconcentration and blood viscosity. Albumin is also used as a transport protein that binds naturally occurring, therapeutic and toxic materials and drugs in the circulation 12.  Human albumin makes up over 50% the total protein in the plasma and represents about 10% of protein synthesis activity by the liver. Human Albumin 25% has a corresponding hyper-oncotic effect 13. The main function of albumin results from its contribution to plasma colloid oncotic pressure and transport function 13.  Albumin stabilizes circulating blood volume and carries hormones, enzymes, medicines, and toxins. Other physiological functions include antioxidant properties, free radical scavenging, in addition to maintenance capillary membrane integrity 13. Exogenously administered albumin increases the oncotic pressure of the intravascular system, moving fluids from the interstitial space, thereby decreasing edema and increasing the circulating blood volume. The increase in volume reduces the concentration and viscosity of blood in patients with decreased circulating blood volume while maintaining cardiac output in shock. In dehydrated patients, negligible effects exist on circulating blood volume. In addition to the above albumin replaces protein in patients with hypoproteinemia until the cause of the deficiency can be determined 8.  This drug has thousands of endogenous and exogenous targets. Human albumin also binds and carries a plethora of hydrophobic molecules, such as endogenous (i.e., cholesterol, fatty acids, bilirubin, thyroxine) or exogenous substances (for example, drugs and toxins), transition metal ions, as well as gas (nitric oxide [NO]), with resulting implications for their solubilisation, transport, metabolism, and detoxification 5. Albumin is distributed throughout the extracellular space and more than 60% of the body albumin pool is located in the extravascular fluid space 13. In healthy adults, less than 10% of infused albumin leaves the intravascular compartment during the first 2 hours following infusion of albumin. There is considerable individual variation in the effect of albumin on plasma volume, however 12, 13. In some patients, the plasma volume can remain elevated for several hours. In critically ill patients, however, albumin can leak out of the vascular space in substantial amounts at an unpredictable rate that is difficult to predict 13. In general, human albumin solutions are well-tolerated and no specific, clinically relevant alterations in organ function or coagulopathy have been substantiated 12. The most common adverse reactions are rigors, hypotension, tachycardia with increased heart rate, fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, dyspnea and/or bronchospasm, skin rash/pruritus. Stop the infusion immediately if anaphylaxis, with or without shock is observed 12. Hypervolemia may occur if the dosage and rate of infusion are not adjusted to the volume status of the patient. When clinical signs of cardiovascular overload occur (headache, dyspnea, jugular venous distention, increased blood pressure), the infusion must be slowed or stopped immediately 13. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Robert A. Tenold, "Preparing essentially monomeric normal human serum albumin." U.S. Patent USRE0362590, issued July, 1976.
Albumin human | DrugBank Online Human serum albumin is the primary protein present in human blood plasma. The main function of albumin is to maintain the oncotic pressure of blood 2. It binds to water, cations (such as Ca2+, Na+ and K+), fatty acids, hormones, bilirubin, thyroxine (T4) and pharmaceuticals (including barbiturates). Albumin represents approximately 50% of the total protein content in healthy humans 5. Human albumin is a small globular protein (molecular weight: 66.5 kDa), consisting of a single chain of 585 amino acids organized in three repeated homolog domains (sites I, II, and III). Each domain comprises two separate sub-domains (A and B) 5.  There are various preparations of albumin that are well established and widely available in the clinical setting 9, 10, 6. Also known as Albuminex 5% or 25%, one brand of human serum albumin is prepared from the pooled plasma of US donors in FDA-licensed facilities in the US 12. This is a biosimilar drug to existing human serum albumin and was approved for a biological license at both 5% and 25% concentrations by the FDA on June 21, 2018 6. Albuminex solution is indicated for adults and children for hypovolemia, ascites, hypoalbuminemia including from burns, acute nephrosis, acute respiratory distress syndrome and cardipulmonary bypass 12. Serum albumin is a soluble, monomeric protein essential for maintaining and regulating the colloidal osmotic pressure of blood. It is utilized to increase the circulating plasma volume, which reduces hemoconcentration and blood viscosity. Albumin is also used as a transport protein that binds naturally occurring, therapeutic and toxic materials and drugs in the circulation 12.  Human albumin makes up over 50% the total protein in the plasma and represents about 10% of protein synthesis activity by the liver. Human Albumin 25% has a corresponding hyper-oncotic effect 13. The main function of albumin results from its contribution to plasma colloid oncotic pressure and transport function 13.  Albumin stabilizes circulating blood volume and carries hormones, enzymes, medicines, and toxins. Other physiological functions include antioxidant properties, free radical scavenging, in addition to maintenance capillary membrane integrity 13. Exogenously administered albumin increases the oncotic pressure of the intravascular system, moving fluids from the interstitial space, thereby decreasing edema and increasing the circulating blood volume. The increase in volume reduces the concentration and viscosity of blood in patients with decreased circulating blood volume while maintaining cardiac output in shock. In dehydrated patients, negligible effects exist on circulating blood volume. In addition to the above albumin replaces protein in patients with hypoproteinemia until the cause of the deficiency can be determined 8.  This drug has thousands of endogenous and exogenous targets. Human albumin also binds and carries a plethora of hydrophobic molecules, such as endogenous (i.e., cholesterol, fatty acids, bilirubin, thyroxine) or exogenous substances (for example, drugs and toxins), transition metal ions, as well as gas (nitric oxide [NO]), with resulting implications for their solubilisation, transport, metabolism, and detoxification 5. Albumin is distributed throughout the extracellular space and more than 60% of the body albumin pool is located in the extravascular fluid space 13. In healthy adults, less than 10% of infused albumin leaves the intravascular compartment during the first 2 hours following infusion of albumin. There is considerable individual variation in the effect of albumin on plasma volume, however 12, 13. In some patients, the plasma volume can remain elevated for several hours. In critically ill patients, however, albumin can leak out of the vascular space in substantial amounts at an unpredictable rate that is difficult to predict 13. In general, human albumin solutions are well-tolerated and no specific, clinically relevant alterations in organ function or coagulopathy have been substantiated 12. The most common adverse reactions are rigors, hypotension, tachycardia with increased heart rate, fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, dyspnea and/or bronchospasm, skin rash/pruritus. Stop the infusion immediately if anaphylaxis, with or without shock is observed 12. Hypervolemia may occur if the dosage and rate of infusion are not adjusted to the volume status of the patient. When clinical signs of cardiovascular overload occur (headache, dyspnea, jugular venous distention, increased blood pressure), the infusion must be slowed or stopped immediately 13. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Robert A. Tenold, "Preparing essentially monomeric normal human serum albumin." U.S. Patent USRE0362590, issued July, 1976.
Rituximab | DrugBank Online Rituximab is a genetically engineered chimeric murine/human monoclonal antibody directed against the CD20 antigen found on the surface of normal and malignant B lymphocytes. The antibody is an IgG1 kappa immunoglobulin containing murine light and heavy-chain variable region sequences and human constant region sequences 6, Label. It was originally approved by the U.S. FDA in 1997 as a single agent to treat patients with B-cell Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL) 8, however, has now been approved for a variety of conditions Label. On November 28, 2018, the US FDA approved Truxima, the first biosimilar to Rituxan (Rituximab) 7. Rituximab is indicated in the following conditions Label: Non–Hodgkin’s Lymphoma (NHL) Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL) Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA) in combination with methotrexate in adult patients with moderately-to severely-active RA Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis (GPA) (Wegener’s Granulomatosis) and Microscopic Polyangiitis (MPA) Moderate to severe Pemphigus Vulgaris (PV) in adult patients The biosimilar (approved in November 2018), Truxima, is indicated For the treatment of adult patients with CD20-positive, B-cell non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) to be used as a single agent or in combination with chemotherapy 7. In September 2019, the rituximab injection was approved along with glucocorticoids to manage granulomatosis with polyangiitis (GPA) in addition to microscopic polyangiitis (MPA) in children of at least 2 years of age 9. Rituximab binds to the CD20 antigen, which is predominantly expressed on mature B cells and on >90% of B-cell
non-Hodgkin's lymphomas 1. The antibody leads to selective killing of B-cells. The following are the pharmacodynamic outcomes for various conditions, including non- Hodgkin's Lymphoma Label: Non-Hodgkin’s Lymphoma (NHL)
In Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma patients, the administration of rituximab led to the depletion of circulating and tissue-based B cells. Among 166 patients in Study 1, circulating CD19-positive B cells were depleted within the first three weeks, showing sustained depletion for up to 6-9 months post-treatment in 83% of treated patients. B-cell recovery began at approximately 6 months and median B-cell levels returned to normal by 12 months following the completion of treatment Label. There were sustained and statistically significant decreases in serum IgM and IgG levels measured from 5-11 months following rituximab administration; 14% of patients showed IgM and/or IgG serum levels below the normal range Label. Rheumatoid Arthritis
In rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients, treatment with rituximab induced the depletion of peripheral B lymphocytes, with the majority of patients showing near complete depletion (CD19 counts below the lower limit of quantification, 20 c-lls/μl) within 2 weeks after the first dose of rituximab. The majority of treated patients showed peripheral B-cell depletion, sustained for a minimum of 6 months. A small percentage of patients (~4%) had peripheral B-cell depletion that was sustained for more than 3 years after one course of treatment. Total serum immunoglobulin levels, IgM, IgG, and IgA were decreased at 6 months with the greatest change observed in IgM. At Week 24 of the first cycle of rituximab treatment, small percentages of patients experienced decreases in IgM (10%), IgG (2.8%), and IgA (0.8%) levels below the lower limit of normal (LLN). When rituximab was administered to RA patients during repeated rituximab treatment, 23.3%, 5.5%, and 0.5% of patients experienced decreases in IgM, IgG, and IgA concentrations below LLN at any time after receiving rituximab, respectively. The clinical consequences of decreases in immunoglobulin levels in RA patients treated with rituximab are not clear at this time. Treatment with rituximab in patients with RA was associated with a decreased level of several biologic markers of inflammation such as interleukin-6 (IL-6), C-reactive protein (CRP), serum amyloid protein (SAA), S100 A8/S100 A9 heterodimer complex (S100 A8/9), anti-citrullinated peptide (anti-CCP), and RF Label and was found to decrease disease symptoms 2. Granulomatosis with Polyangiitis (GPA) (Wegener’s Granulomatosis) and Microscopic Polyangiitis
In GPA and MPA patients, peripheral blood CD19 B-cells were depleted to less than 10 cells/μl after the first two infusions of rituximab, and remained at the same level in most (84%) patients through Month 6 of the treatment. By Month 12, most patients (81%) demonstrated signs of B-cell return with counts >10 cells/μL. By Month 18, the majority of patients (87%) had counts >10 cells/μL Label. Rituximab is a monoclonal antibody that targets the CD20 antigen, which is expressed on the surface of pre-B and mature B-lymphocytes 1, 2, 3, Label. After binding to CD20, rituximab mediates B-cell lysis (or breakdown). The possible mechanisms of cell lysis include complement dependent cytotoxicity (CDC) and antibody dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) Label. Rituximab belongs to the immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1) sub-class, consisting of a murine variable region (Fab region) and a human constant region (Fc region). The Fab region has variable sections that define a specific target antigen, allowing the antibody to attract and secure its exclusive antigen, specifically the binding of rituximab (IgG1) to CD20 on pre-B and mature B lymphocytes. The Fc region is the tail end of the antibody that communicates with cell surface receptors to activate the immune system, in this case, a sequence of events leading to the depletion of circulating B lymphocytes by complement-dependent cell lysis, antibody-dependent cellular cytotoxicity, as well as apoptosis 6. In regards to the mechanism of action in rheumatoid arthritis, B cells are thought to play a role in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and the associated condition of chronic synovitis. B cells may act at various sites in the autoimmune/inflammatory process, including through production of rheumatoid factor (RF) and other autoantibodies, antigen presentation, T-cell activation, and/or the production of proinflammatory cytokines Label. The administration of rituximab in this condition has been shown to result in significant clinical and symptomatic improvements 2, Label. Following the administration of 2 doses of rituximab in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA), the mean (± S.D.; % CV) concentrations after the first infusion (Cmax first) and second infusion (Cmax second) were : 157 ( ± 46; 29%) and 183 ( ± 55; 30%) mcg/mL, and 318 ( ± 86; 27%) and 381 ( ± 98; 26%) mcg/mL for the 2 × 500 mg and 2 × 1000 mg doses, respectively Label. 3.1 L in Rheumatoid Arthritis Label 4.5 L in Granulomatosis with polyangitis and microscopic polyangitis Label Most likely removed by opsonization via the reticuloendothelial system 5. Likely eliminated through the reticuloendothelial system 5.  Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma: Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from 298 Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL) patients who received rituximab once weekly or once every three weeks, the estimated median terminal elimination half-life was 22 days (range, 6.1 to 52 days) Label. Rheumatoid Arthritis: Mean terminal elimination half-life was 18.0 days in patients with rheumatoid arthritis Label Based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis of data from 2005 RA patients who received rituximab Label. Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia (CLL): Pharmacokinetics were studied in 21 patients with CLL receiving rituximab according to the recommended dose and schedule. The estimated median terminal half-life of rituximab was 32 days (range, 14-62 days) Label. Granulomatosis with Polyangitis and Microscopic Polyangitis: Based on the population pharmacokinetic analysis of data in 97 GPA and MPA patients who received 375 mg/m2 rituximab once weekly by intravenous infusion for four weeks, the estimated median terminal elimination half-life was 23 days (range, 9 to 49 days) Label. Rheumatoid Arthritis: 0.335 L/day Label Granulomatosis with Polyangitis and Microscopic Polyangitis: 0. 312 L/day Label Patients with higher CD19-positive cell counts or larger measurable tumor lesions at pretreatment had a higher clearance Label. Oral LD50: 27 mg/kg (mouse and rat) MSDS Inhalation LD50: 32 mg/m3 (mouse) and 37 mg/m3 (rat) MSDS Skin LD50: 20 mg/kg (rabbit) and 50 mg/kg (rat) MSDS Carcinogenesis, Mutagenesis, Impairment of Fertility
Botulinum toxin type A | DrugBank Online Purified botulinum toxin from Clostridium botulinum, purified from culture via dialysis and acid precipitation. For the treatment of cervical dystonia in adults to decrease the severity of abnormal head position and neck pain associated with cervical dystonia. Also for the treatment of severe primary axillary hyperhidrosis that is inadequately managed with topical agents and for the treatment of strabismus and blepharospasm associated with dystonia, including benign essential blepharospasm or VII nerve disorders in patients 12 years of age and above. Also used cosmetically to temporarily improve the appearance of moderate-to-severe frown lines between the eyebrows (glabellar lines) as well as for the treatment of excessive underarm sweating. A 150 kDa neurotoxic protein produced from fermentation of Hall strain Clostridium botulinum type A grown in a medium containing casein hydrolysate, glucose and yeast extract. It is purified from the culture solution by dialysis and a series of acid precipitations to a complex consisting of the neurotoxin, and several accessory proteins. Botulinum Toxin Type A is not expected to be present in the peripheral blood at measurable levels following IM or intradermal injection at the recommended doses. The recommended quantities of neurotoxin administered at each treatment session are not expected to result in systemic, overt distant clinical effects, i.e. muscle weakness, in patients without other neuromuscular dysfunction. However, sub-clinical systemic effects have been shown by single-fiber electromyography after IM doses of botulinum toxins appropriate to produce clinically observable local muscle weakness. Botulinum Toxin Type A blocks neuromuscular transmission by binding to acceptor sites on motor or sympathetic nerve terminals, entering the nerve terminals, and inhibiting the release of acetylcholine. This inhibition occurs as the neurotoxin cleaves SNAP-25, a protein integral to the successful docking and release of acetylcholine from vesicles situated within nerve endings. The chemical complexity of Botulinum Toxin Type A combined with its extreme potency limits the opportunity to study its pharmacokinetic profile in humans. Therefore, no human pharmacokinetic studies have been performed. Botulinum Toxin Type A is injected directly into the target organ, a skeletal muscle. Thus, bioavailability of the intravenous or oral route is not of clinical relevance.  Based on toxicological studies, it has been estimated that the human LD50
Urofollitropin | DrugBank Online Urofollitropin is a urinary-derived follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) that is extracted and purified from human urine samples. It consists of two non-covalently linked, non-identical glycoproteins designated as the alpha- and beta- subunits. The alpha- and beta- subunits have 92 and 111 amino acids. The alpha subunit is glycosylated at Asn 51 and Asn 78 while the beta subunit is glycosylated at Asn 7 and Asn 24. Urofollitropin is typically used injected subcutaneously in combination with human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) to induce ovulation. Urofollitropin may also be used to cause the ovary to produce several follicles, which can then be harvested for use in gamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT) or in vitro fertilization (IVF). For treatment of female infertility Used for the treatment of female infertility, urofollitropin or follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) stimulates ovarian follicular growth in women who do not have primary ovarian failure. FSH, the active component of urofollitropin is the primary hormone responsible for follicular recruitment and development. FSH binds to the follicle stimulating hormone receptor which is a G-coupled transmembrane receptor. Binding of the FSH to its receptor seems to induce phosphorylation and activation of the PI3K (Phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase) and Akt signaling pathway, which is known to regulate many other metabolic and related survival/maturation functions in cells. 74% Time to peak in plasma:
IM: 17 hours (single dose), 11 hours (multiple doses)
Albumin human | DrugBank Online Human serum albumin is the primary protein present in human blood plasma. The main function of albumin is to maintain the oncotic pressure of blood 2. It binds to water, cations (such as Ca2+, Na+ and K+), fatty acids, hormones, bilirubin, thyroxine (T4) and pharmaceuticals (including barbiturates). Albumin represents approximately 50% of the total protein content in healthy humans 5. Human albumin is a small globular protein (molecular weight: 66.5 kDa), consisting of a single chain of 585 amino acids organized in three repeated homolog domains (sites I, II, and III). Each domain comprises two separate sub-domains (A and B) 5.  There are various preparations of albumin that are well established and widely available in the clinical setting 9, 10, 6. Also known as Albuminex 5% or 25%, one brand of human serum albumin is prepared from the pooled plasma of US donors in FDA-licensed facilities in the US 12. This is a biosimilar drug to existing human serum albumin and was approved for a biological license at both 5% and 25% concentrations by the FDA on June 21, 2018 6. Albuminex solution is indicated for adults and children for hypovolemia, ascites, hypoalbuminemia including from burns, acute nephrosis, acute respiratory distress syndrome and cardipulmonary bypass 12. Serum albumin is a soluble, monomeric protein essential for maintaining and regulating the colloidal osmotic pressure of blood. It is utilized to increase the circulating plasma volume, which reduces hemoconcentration and blood viscosity. Albumin is also used as a transport protein that binds naturally occurring, therapeutic and toxic materials and drugs in the circulation 12.  Human albumin makes up over 50% the total protein in the plasma and represents about 10% of protein synthesis activity by the liver. Human Albumin 25% has a corresponding hyper-oncotic effect 13. The main function of albumin results from its contribution to plasma colloid oncotic pressure and transport function 13.  Albumin stabilizes circulating blood volume and carries hormones, enzymes, medicines, and toxins. Other physiological functions include antioxidant properties, free radical scavenging, in addition to maintenance capillary membrane integrity 13. Exogenously administered albumin increases the oncotic pressure of the intravascular system, moving fluids from the interstitial space, thereby decreasing edema and increasing the circulating blood volume. The increase in volume reduces the concentration and viscosity of blood in patients with decreased circulating blood volume while maintaining cardiac output in shock. In dehydrated patients, negligible effects exist on circulating blood volume. In addition to the above albumin replaces protein in patients with hypoproteinemia until the cause of the deficiency can be determined 8.  This drug has thousands of endogenous and exogenous targets. Human albumin also binds and carries a plethora of hydrophobic molecules, such as endogenous (i.e., cholesterol, fatty acids, bilirubin, thyroxine) or exogenous substances (for example, drugs and toxins), transition metal ions, as well as gas (nitric oxide [NO]), with resulting implications for their solubilisation, transport, metabolism, and detoxification 5. Albumin is distributed throughout the extracellular space and more than 60% of the body albumin pool is located in the extravascular fluid space 13. In healthy adults, less than 10% of infused albumin leaves the intravascular compartment during the first 2 hours following infusion of albumin. There is considerable individual variation in the effect of albumin on plasma volume, however 12, 13. In some patients, the plasma volume can remain elevated for several hours. In critically ill patients, however, albumin can leak out of the vascular space in substantial amounts at an unpredictable rate that is difficult to predict 13. In general, human albumin solutions are well-tolerated and no specific, clinically relevant alterations in organ function or coagulopathy have been substantiated 12. The most common adverse reactions are rigors, hypotension, tachycardia with increased heart rate, fever, chills, nausea, vomiting, dyspnea and/or bronchospasm, skin rash/pruritus. Stop the infusion immediately if anaphylaxis, with or without shock is observed 12. Hypervolemia may occur if the dosage and rate of infusion are not adjusted to the volume status of the patient. When clinical signs of cardiovascular overload occur (headache, dyspnea, jugular venous distention, increased blood pressure), the infusion must be slowed or stopped immediately 13. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Robert A. Tenold, "Preparing essentially monomeric normal human serum albumin." U.S. Patent USRE0362590, issued July, 1976.
Filgrastim | DrugBank Online Chemotherapy-induced neutropenia (CIN) is a common and serious complication of myelosuppressive chemotherapy. It is associated with significant morbidity and mortality and can increase the cost of cancer therapy. In these cases, colony stimulating factor is necessary to restore important cells for immune function 3. For over twenty years, granulocyte colony-stimulating factors (G-CSFs; filgrastims) have been a pillar of treatment and prevention of CIN, and have been found to reduce the risk of neutropenia across various patient settings, decrease the incidence of febrile neutropenia, reduce the incidence of infection, reduce the requirement for treatment with antibiotics, and accelerate neutrophil recovery 3. Filgrastim is a recombinant, non-pegylated human granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) analog. It is marketed as the brand name Neupogen by Amgen (initially approved in 1998) and as Nivestym, a biosimilar agent by Pfizer. Nivestym was approved by the FDA on July 20th, 2018 5. Between 1998 and the present, Neupogen/filgrastim has been approved for various indications 8. Tbo-filgrastim, which is marketed by Sicor Biotech and FDA approved on August 29, 2012, contains the same active ingredient as Neupogen and is biologically similar, but it is formulated to be short-acting 10. On March 6, 2015, the FDA approved the biosimilar Zarxio (filgrastim-sndz) and is indicated for use in the same conditions as Neupogen. Zarxio is marketed by Sandoz 7. This drug is a leucocyte growth factor Label indicated to: Decrease the incidence of infection‚ as manifested by febrile neutropenia‚
in patients with nonmyeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti-cancer drugs associated with a significant incidence of severe neutropenia with fever Label.  Reduce the time to neutrophil recovery and the duration of fever, following induction or consolidation chemotherapy treatment in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) Label Reduce the duration of neutropenia and neutropenia-related clinical sequelae‚ e.g.‚ febrile neutropenia, in patients with nonmyeloid malignancies undergoing myeloablative chemotherapy followed by bone marrow transplantation (BMT) Label Mobilize autologous hematopoietic progenitor cells into the peripheral blood for collection by leukapheresis Label Reduce the incidence and duration of sequelae of severe neutropenia (e.g.‚ fever‚ infections‚ oropharyngeal ulcers) in symptomatic patients with congenital neutropenia‚ cyclic neutropenia‚ or idiopathic neutropenia Label. Neupogen is approved for treatment of patients with radiation-induced myelosuppression following a radiological/nuclear incident 6. Filgrastim binds to the G-CSF receptor and stimulates the production of neutrophils in the bone marrow Label.
Colony-stimulating factors are glycoproteins which act on hematopoietic cells by binding to specific cell surface receptors, in turn, stimulating proliferation and differentiation 9. G-CSF and its receptor are necessary for basal and stress-induced granulopoiesis, which forms neutrophils. Mice deficient in G-CSF or G-CSFR have severe neutropenia and reduced levels (~50%) of late-stage neutrophil precursors in the bone marrow under normal, resting conditions 4. Endogenous G-CSF is a lineage-specific colony-stimulating factor that is produced by monocytes‚ fibroblasts, and endothelial cells. G-CSF regulates the production of neutrophils within the bone marrow and enhances neutrophil progenitor proliferation‚ differentiation, and selected end-cell functions (including enhanced phagocytic ability‚ priming of the cellular metabolism associated with respiratory burst‚ antibody-dependent killing, and enhanced expression of certain cell surface antigens). G-CSF is not species-specific and has demonstrated to have negligible direct in vivo or in vitro effects on the production or action of hematopoietic cell types other than the neutrophil and its lineage9. As a G-CSF analog, this drug controls the proliferation of committed progenitor cells and influences their maturation into mature neutrophils. Filgrastim also stimulates the release of neutrophils from bone marrow storage pools and decreases their time to maturation. Filgrastim acts to increase the phagocytic activity of mature neutrophils, thus allowing them to prevent infection. In patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy, filgrastim may accelerate neutrophil recovery, leading to a reduction in the duration of the neutropenic phase post chemotherapy Label. Used in the treatment of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia by enhancing the production of neutrophils, filgrastim acts on hematopoietic cells by binding to specific cell surface receptors, thereby stimulating proliferation, differentiation, commitment, and end cell functional activation. In one efficacy study, levels of neutrophils returned to baseline by 21 days following completion of chemotherapy and the administration of tbo-filgrastim (fast-acting) 10. In phase 1 studies involving 96 patients with various non-myeloid malignancies‚ filgrastim administration resulted in a dose-dependent increase in circulating neutrophil counts over the dose range of 1 to 70 mcg/kg/day.  This increase in neutrophil counts was seen whether filgrastim was administered intravenous (1 to 70 mcg/kg twice daily)‚ subcutaneous (1 to 3 mcg/kg once daily)‚ or by continuous subcutaneous (SC) infusion (3 to 11 mcg/kg/day). After the discontinuation of filgrastim therapy‚ neutrophil counts returned to baseline in most cases within only 4 days after Nevistym was used Label. Absorption and clearance of Neupogen follows first-order pharmacokinetics without concentration dependence.
Subcutaneous administration of 3.45 mcg/kg and 11.5 mcg/kg of filgrastim resulted in maximum serum concentrations of 4 and 49 ng/mL‚ respectively‚ within 2-8 hours Label. Filgrastim does not accumulate. It is estimated that when filgrastim is subcutaneously administered, the absolute bioavailability is approximately 62% and 71% for 375 mcg and 750 mcg doses respectively. When 5 mcg/kg tbo-filgrastim is subcutaneously administered, the absolute bioavailability is 33%. It takes 4-6 hours for tho-filgrastim to reach maximum concentration 10. 150 mL/kg Label Filgrastim products demonstrate nonlinear pharmacokinetics. The clearance is dependent on filgrastim product concentration in addition to neutrophil count. G-CSF receptor-mediated clearance is saturated by a high concentration of filgrastim products and is diminished by neutropenia. In addition, filgrastim products are cleared by the kidney 9. Elimination half-life was approximately 3.5 hours in both normal subjects and cancer subjects Label 0.5 - 0.7 mL/minute/kg after SC administration of 3.45 mcg/kg and 11.5 mcg/kg in both normal subjects and cancer patients Label There are numerous adverse effects associated with Filgastrim. They are organized by organ system as follows: Generalized effects Serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis: Permanently discontinue NIVESTYM in patients with serious allergic reactions.
With non-myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti-cancer drugs (≥ 5% difference in incidence compared to placebo) are pyrexia, pain, rash, cough, and dyspnea Label. With AML (≥ 2% difference in incidence) are pain, epistaxis and rash Label. With severe chronic neutropenia (SCN) (≥ 5% difference in incidence) are pain, anemia, epistaxis, diarrhea, hypoesthesia, and alopecia Label. Musculoskeletal system Exacerbation of arthritic symptoms has been uncommonly observed 9. Spleen Fatal splenic rupture: Evaluate patients who report left upper abdominal or shoulder pain for an enlarged spleen or splenic rupture. Cases of splenomegaly and splenic rupture have been reported uncommonly following administration of filgrastim. Some cases of splenic rupture were fatal Label. Respiratory system Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS): Evaluate patients who develop fever and lung infiltrates or respiratory distress for ARDS. Discontinue filgrastim in patients with ARDS Label. Pulmonary adverse effects, in particular interstitial lung disease, have been reported after G-CSF administration. Patients with a recent history of lung infiltrates or pneumonia may be at higher risk. The onset of pulmonary signs, such as cough, fever and dyspnea in association with radiological signs of pulmonary infiltrates and deterioration in pulmonary function may be preliminary signs of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Filgrastim should be discontinued and appropriate treatment should be given 9. Hematological system Fatal sickle cell crises have occurred.  The granulocyte-colony stimulating factor can promote the malignant growth of myeloid cells in vitro and the same effects may be seen on some non-myeloid cells in vitro. The safety and efficacy of filgrastim administration in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome, or chronic myelogenous leukemia have not been established. Filgrastim is not indicated for use in these conditions. Particular care should be taken to distinguish the diagnosis of blast transformation of chronic myeloid leukemia from acute myeloid leukemia 9. Capillary leak syndrome has been reported after granulocyte colony-stimulating factor administration, and is characterised by hypotension, hypoalbuminaemia, edema and hemoconcentration. Patients who show symptoms of capillary leak syndrome must be closely monitored and receive standard symptomatic treatment, which may include a need for intensive care 9. Leukocytosis (white blood cell (WBC) > 50 x 109/l) was seen in 41% of donors and transient thrombocytopenia (platelets < 100 x 109/l) following filgrastim and leukapheresis was observed in 35% of donors 9. Renal system This drug increases the risk of glomerulonephritis. Evaluate and consider dose-reduction or interruption
Oxytocin | DrugBank Online Synthetic 9 residue cyclic peptide. The hormone is prepared synthetically to avoid possible contamination with vasopressin (ADH) and other small polypeptides with biologic activity. Used for labor induction, augmentation of labor, postpartum abbreviation of third stage of labor, postpartum control of uterine bleeding, termination of pregnancy and for the evaluation of fetal respiratory capability. Oxytocin cannot be used for elective induction of labor, there must be a clear medical requirement.  Indirectly stimulates contraction of uterine smooth muscle by increasing the sodium permeability of uterine myofibrils. Increases contraction amplitude and frequency, which tends to decrease cervical activity, produce dilation and effacement of the cervix, and transiently impede uterine blood flow; contractions produced by oxytocin at term are similar to those occurring during spontaneous labor. High estrogen concentrations lower the threshold for uterine response to oxytocin. Uterine response increases with the duration of pregnancy and is greater in labor than when not in labor; only very large doses elicit contractions in early pregnancy. Contracts myoepithelial cells surrounding the alveoli of the breasts, forcing milk from the alveoli into the larger ducts and facilitating milk ejection. Minimal antidiuretic activity relative to vasopressin; water intoxication possible at high doses and/or excessive electrolyte-free fluid.  Uterine motility depends on the formation of the contractile protein actomyosin under the influence of the Ca2+-dependent phosphorylating enzyme myosin light-chain kinase. Oxytocin promotes contractions by increasing the intracellular Ca2+, which in turn activates myosin's light chain kinase.. Oxytocin has specific receptors in the muscle lining of the uterus and the receptor concentration increases greatly during pregnancy, reaching a maximum in early labor at term. Uterine response after IV administration is immediate and subsides after 1 hour. Uterine contractions occur 3-5mins after IM administration and decreases within 2-3 hours. When 100-200milliunits is administered IV, contractions of the myoepithelial tissue surrounding the alveoli of the breasts occur within minutes and last for about 20 mins.  Distributes throughout the extracellular fluid and crosses the placenta. It is probable that it also distributes into milk in small amounts.  30% Oxytocin is rapidly metabolized in the liver and also in the plasma by oxytocinases. It is also metabolized to a smaller degree by the mammary glands.  Biliary and renal (excreted unchanged in the urine) 1-6 min, this is decreased in late pregnancy and during lactation. Oxytocin can produce a severe water intoxication due to its antidiuretic effect. Prolonged IV infusions of more 40milliunits/min are usually the cause. Severe water intoxication with convulsions, coma, and death can occur. Some neonatal seizures have also been reported. Consider potential for water intoxication, particularly when administered by IV infusion and patient is receiving oral fluids.
Bevacizumab | DrugBank Online There is a great deal of evidence indicating that vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) is important for the survival and proliferation of cancer cells.14,6,8,24 VEGF plays an important role in angiogenesis, lymphangiogenesis, and tumor growth, which are all factors that contribute to its attractiveness as a therapeutic target for anti-cancer therapies.5,7,6,8,9  In 2004, bevacizumab (Avastin) gained FDA approval for specific types of cancer, and became the first antiangiogenic agent introduced to the market.23,24 It is a humanized monoclonal IgG antibody, and inhibits angiogenesis by binding and neutralizing VEGF-A.7,14 Bevacizumab is generally indicated for use in combination with different chemotherapy regimens which are specific to the type, severity, and stage of cancer.25  Interestingly, researchers have identified higher VEGF expression in patients with COVID-19, which may contribute to lung pathologies including acute respiratory syndrome (ARDS) and acute lung injury (ALI).26 As such, bevacizumab is being investigated for the treatment of lung complications associated with severe cases of COVID-19.26 As a vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) inhibitor, bevacizumab is used in several chemotherapy regimens to treat metastatic colorectal cancer; metastatic, unresectable, locally advanced or recurrent non-squamous non-small cell lung cancer; metastatic renal cell carcinoma; metastatic, persistent, or recurrent cervical cancer; primary peritoneal cancer; epithelial ovarian cancer; and fallopian tube cancer.25 It can also be used to treat recurrent glioblastoma.25 Interestingly, bevacizumab is currently under investigation for the treatment of COVID-19 complications including acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and acute lung injury (ALI).26  Bevacizumab binds circulating vascular endothelial-derived growth factor (VEGF) and blocks it from binding to its associated receptors, effectively blunting downstream signaling.19 The effects of bevacizumab have been shown to re-establish normal vasculature at the tumor site resulting in increased nutrient and oxygen supply, while also improving the delivery of chemotherapeutic drugs to the target area.14,18 On the other hand, VEGF signaling is a vital component of several processes including angiogenesis, lymphangiogenesis, blood pressure regulation, wound healing, coagulation, and renal filtration.5,7,19 Although blocking VEGF may inhibit metastatic disease progression, it may also result in unintended effects due to the role of VEGF in several other physiologic processes.25 Transcription of the VEGF protein is induced by 'hypoxia inducible factor' (HIF) in a hypoxic environment.14 When circulating VEGF binds to VEGF receptors (VEGFR-1 and VEGFR-2) located on endothelial cells, various downstream effects are initiated.5,14 It should be noted that VEGF also binds to the neuropilin co-receptors (NRP-1 and NRP-1), leading to enhanced signaling.14,17  Cancer cells promote tumor angiogenesis by releasing VEGF, resulting in the creation of an immature and disorganized vascular network.9,10 The hypoxic microenvironment promoted by cancer cells favors the survival of more aggressive tumor cells, and gives rise to a challenging environment for immune cells to respond appropriately.10,11,12 As a result, VEGF has become a well-known target for anti-cancer drugs like bevacizumab.6 Bevacizumab is a mAb that exerts its effects by binding and inactivating serum VEGF.14 When bound to the mAb, VEGF is unable to interact with its cell surface receptors, and proangiogenic signalling is inhibited.14 This prevents formation of new blood vessels, decreases tumor vasculature, and reduces tumor blood supply.14,25  There is also evidence to suggest that VEGF is upregulated in COVID-19 patients, hence, bevacizumab is being investigated for the treatment of associated complications.26 Higher levels of VEGF may contribute to pulmonary edema, leading to acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) and acute lung injury (ALI).26 Researchers are hopeful that by inhibiting VEGF, bevacizumab may effectively treat ARDS and ALI - both common features of severe COVID-19 cases.26 Monoclonal antibodies (mAbs) are large in size, do not readily cross cell membranes, and are unable to withstand proteolysis in the gastrointestinal tract.16,21,22 Given these characteristics, mAbs are poorly absorbed via the oral route and are instead administered intravenously, intramuscularly or subcutaneously.16,22 In a single dose (1mg/kg) pharmacokinetic study assessing the bioequivalence of bevacizumab and TAB008 (a biosimilar product), the pharmacokinetic parameters of Avastin (bevacizumab) were as follows20:
Geometric mean Cmax = 17.38 ug/mL
Geometric mean AUCinf = 5,358 ugxh/mL
Pyridoxal phosphate | DrugBank Online This is the active form of vitamin B6 serving as a coenzyme for synthesis of amino acids, neurotransmitters (serotonin, norepinephrine), sphingolipids, aminolevulinic acid. During transamination of amino acids, pyridoxal phosphate is transiently converted into pyridoxamine phosphate (pyridoxamine). For nutritional supplementation and for treating dietary shortage or imbalance. The two major forms of vitamin B6 are pyridoxine and pyridoxamine. In the liver they are converted to pyridoxal phosphate (PLP) which is a cofactor in many reactions of amino acid metabolism. PLP also is necessary for the enzymatic reaction governing the release of glucose from glycogen. Pyroluria is one potential cause of vitamin B6 deficiency. Pyridoxal Phosphate is a coenzyme of many enzymatic reactions. It is the active form of vitamin B6 which comprises three natural organic compounds, pyridoxal, pyridoxamine and pyridoxine. Pyridoxal phosphate acts as a coenzyme in all transamination reactions, and in some
Vitamin B12 | DrugBank Online Cyanocobalamin (commonly known as Vitamin B12) is a highly complex, essential vitamin, owing its name to the fact that it contains the mineral, cobalt. This vitamin is produced naturally by bacteria 16, and is necessary for DNA synthesis and cellular energy production. Vitamin B12 has many forms, including the cyano-, methyl-, deoxyadenosyl- and hydroxy-cobalamin forms. The cyano form, is the most widely used form in supplements and prescription drugs 10, Label. Several pharmaceutical forms of cyanocobalamin have been developed, including the tablet, injection, and nasal spray forms Label, 19, 20. This drug was initially approved by the FDA in 1942 Label. Nasal spray The cyanocobalamin nasal spray is indicated for the maintenance of vitamin B12 concentrations after normalization with intramuscular vitamin B12 therapy in patients with deficiency of this vitamin who have no nervous system involvement Label. Note: CaloMist Label, the nasal spray form, has not been evaluated for the treatment of newly diagnosed vitamin B12 deficiency. Injection forms (subcutaneous, intramuscular) These forms are indicated for vitamin B12 deficiencies due to various causes, with or without neurologic manifestations 26. Vitamin B12 deficiency is frequently caused by malabsorption, which is often associated with the following conditions 20: Addisonian (pernicious) anemia Gastrointestinal pathology, dysfunction, or surgery, including gluten enteropathy or sprue, small bowel bacterial overgrowth, total or partial gastrectomy Fish tapeworm infestation Malignancy of the pancreas or bowel Folic acid deficiency Oral forms Vitamin B12 supplements are widely available and indicated in patients who require supplementation for various reasons. Dose requirements for vitamin B12 which are higher than normal (caused by pregnancy, thyrotoxicosis, hemolytic anemia, hemorrhage, malignancy, hepatic and renal disease) can usually be achieved with oral supplementation 20. Oral products of vitamin B12 are not recommended in patients with malabsorption, as these forms are primarily absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract 27.  General effects Cyanocobalamin corrects vitamin B12 deficiency and improves the symptoms and laboratory abnormalities associated with pernicious anemia (megaloblastic indices, gastrointestinal lesions, and neurologic damage). This drug aids in growth, cell reproduction, hematopoiesis, nucleoprotein, and myelin synthesis. It also plays an important role in fat metabolism, carbohydrate metabolism, as well as protein synthesis. Cells that undergo rapid division (for example, epithelial cells, bone marrow, and myeloid cells) have a high demand for vitamin B12 10.  Parenteral cyanocobalamin effects The parenteral administration of vitamin B12 rapidly and completely reverses the megaloblastic anemia and gastrointestinal symptoms of vitamin B12 deficiency. Rapid parenteral administration of vitamin B12 in deficiency related neurological damage prevents the progression of this condition 20.  Nasal spray effects In 24 vitamin B12 deficient patients who were already stabilized on intramuscular (IM) vitamin B12 therapy, single daily doses of intranasal cyanocobalamin for 8 weeks lead to serum vitamin B12 concentrations that were within the target therapeutic range (>200 ng/L) Label. Vitamin B12 serves as a cofactor for methionine synthase and L-methylmalonyl-CoA mutase enzymes. Methionine synthase is essential for the synthesis of purines and pyrimidines that form DNA. L-methylmalonyl-CoA mutase converts L-methylmalonyl-CoA to succinyl-CoA in the degradation of propionate 24, an important reaction required for both fat and protein metabolism. It is a lack of vitamin B12 cofactor in the above reaction and the resulting accumulation of methylmalonyl CoA that is believed to be responsible for the neurological manifestations of B12 deficiency 10. Succinyl-CoA is also necessary for the synthesis of hemoglobin 24.  In tissues, vitamin B12 is required for the synthesis of methionine from homocysteine. Methionine is required for the formation of S-adenosylmethionine, a methyl donor for nearly 100 substrates, comprised of DNA, RNA, hormones, proteins, as well as lipids 24. Without vitamin B12, tetrahydrofolate cannot be regenerated from 5-methyltetrahydrofolate, and this can lead to functional folate deficiency 22, Label.
This reaction is dependent on methylcobalamin (vitamin B12) as a co-factor and is also dependent on folate, in which the methyl group of methyltetrahydrofolate is transferred to homocysteine to form methionine and tetrahydrofolate. Vitamin B12 incorporates into circulating folic acid into growing red blood cells; retaining the folate in these cells 23. A deficiency of vitamin B12 and the interruption of this reaction leads to the development of megaloblastic anemia.  Vitamin B12 is quickly absorbed from intramuscular (IM) and subcutaneous (SC) sites of injection; with peak plasma concentrations achieved about 1 hour after IM injection 26. Orally administered vitamin B12 binds to intrinsic factor (IF) during its transport through the stomach. The separation of Vitamin B12 and IF occurs in the terminal ileum when calcium is present, and vitamin B12 is then absorbed into the gastrointestinal mucosal cells. It is then transported by transcobalamin binding proteins 20. Passive diffusion through the intestinal wall can occur, however, high doses of vitamin B12 are required in this case (i.e. >1 mg). After the administration of oral doses less than 3 mcg, peak plasma concentrations are not reached for 8 to 12 hours, because the vitamin is temporarily retained in the wall of the lower ileum 26.  Cobalamin is distributed to tissues and stored mainly in the liver and bone marrow Label.  Very high (to specific plasma proteins called transcobalamins); binding of hydroxocobalamin is slightly higher than cyanocobalamin [FDA label. Vitamin B12 or cyanocobalamin obtained from food is initially bound by haptocorrin, a protein found in the saliva with high affinity for B12. This forms a haptocorrin-B12 complex. Cyanocobalamin passes through the stomach and is protected from acid degradation due to its binding to haptocorrin. In the duodenum, pancreatic proteases release cobalamin from the haptocorrin-B12 complex and from other proteins containing protein-bound B12 that have been ingested. Following this, the binding of cobalamin to a second glycoprotein, intrinsic factor, promotes its uptake by terminal ileum mucosal cells by a process called cubilin/AMN receptor-mediated endocytosis. After absorption into enterocytes, intrinsic factor is broken down in the lysosome, and cobalamin is then released into the bloodstream. The transporter ABCC1, found in the basolateral membrane of intestinal epithelial and other cells, exports cobalamin bound to transcobalamin out of the cell 15. Cyanocobalamin then passes through the portal vein in the liver, and then reaches the systemic circulation. The active forms of cyanocobalamin are methylcobalamin and adenosylcobalamin 15, 24.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners This drug is partially excreted in the urine 27. According to a clinical study, approximately 3-8 mcg of vitamin B12 is secreted into the gastrointestinal tract daily via the bile. In patients with adequate levels of intrinsic factor, all except approximately 1 mcg is reabsorbed. When vitamin B12 is administered in higher doses that saturate the binding capacity of plasma proteins and the liver, the unbound vitamin B12 is eliminated rapidly in the urine. The body storage of vitamin B12 is dose-dependent Label.  Approximately 6 days (400 days in the liver) 27. During vitamin loading, the kidney accumulates large amounts of unbound vitamin B12. This drug is cleared partially by the kidney, however, multiligand receptor megalin promotes the reuptake and reabsorption of vitamin B12 into the body 13, 14. LD50 Oral (mouse): > 5,000 mg/kg 25.  General toxicity Vitamin B12 is generally non-toxic, even at higher doses. Mild, transient diarrhea, polycythemia vera, peripheral vascular thrombosis, itching, transitory exanthema, a feeling of swelling of entire body, pulmonary edema and congestive heart failure in early treatment stages, anaphylactic shock and death have been observed after vitamin B12 administration 26. Carcinogenesis and mutagenesis Long term studies in animals examining the carcinogenic potential of any of the vitamin B12 formulations have not completed to date. There is no evidence from long-term use in patients with pernicious anemia that vitamin B12 has carcinogenic potential. Pernicious
Fluvoxamine | DrugBank Online Fluvoxamine is an antidepressant which functions pharmacologically as a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor. Though it is in the same class as other SSRI drugs, it is most often used to treat obsessive-compulsive disorder.
Ramipril | DrugBank Online Ramipril is a prodrug belonging to the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor class of medications. It is metabolized to ramiprilat in the liver and, to a lesser extent, kidneys. Ramiprilat is a potent, competitive inhibitor of ACE, the enzyme responsible for the conversion of angiotensin I (ATI) to angiotensin II (ATII). ATII regulates blood pressure and is a key component of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS). Ramipril may be used in the treatment of hypertension, congestive heart failure, nephropathy, and to reduce the rate of death, myocardial infarction and stroke in individuals at high risk of cardiovascular events. For the management of mild to severe hypertension. May be used to reduce cardiovascular mortality following myocardial infarction in hemodynamically stable individuals who develop clinical signs of congestive heart failure within a few days following myocardial infarction. Label To reduce the rate of death, myocardial infarction and stroke in individuals at high risk of cardiovascular events. May be used to slow the progression of renal disease in individuals with hypertension, diabetes mellitus and microalubinuria or overt nephropathy. 5  Ramipril is an ACE inhibitor similar to benazepril, fosinopril and quinapril. 5 It is an inactive prodrug that is converted to ramiprilat in the liver, the main site of activation, and kidneys. Ramiprilat confers blood pressure lowing effects by antagonizing the effect of the RAAS. The RAAS is a homeostatic mechanism for regulating hemodynamics, water and electrolyte balance. During sympathetic stimulation or when renal blood pressure or blood flow is reduced, renin is released from the granular cells of the juxtaglomerular apparatus in the kidneys. In the blood stream, renin cleaves circulating angiotensinogen to ATI, which is subsequently cleaved to ATII by ACE. ATII increases blood pressure using a number of mechanisms. First, it stimulates the secretion of aldosterone from the adrenal cortex. Aldosterone travels to the distal convoluted tubule (DCT) and collecting tubule of nephrons where it increases sodium and water reabsorption by increasing the number of sodium channels and sodium-potassium ATPases on cell membranes. Second, ATII stimulates the secretion of vasopressin (also known as antidiuretic hormone or ADH) from the posterior pituitary gland. ADH stimulates further water reabsorption from the kidneys via insertion of aquaporin-2 channels on the apical surface of cells of the DCT and collecting tubules. Third, ATII increases blood pressure through direct arterial vasoconstriction. Stimulation of the Type 1 ATII receptor on vascular smooth muscle cells leads to a cascade of events resulting in myocyte contraction and vasoconstriction. In addition to these major effects, ATII induces the thirst response via stimulation of hypothalamic neurons. ACE inhibitors inhibit the rapid conversion of ATI to ATII and antagonize RAAS-induced increases in blood pressure. ACE (also known as kininase II) is also involved in the enzymatic deactivation of bradykinin, a vasodilator. Inhibiting the deactivation of bradykinin increases bradykinin levels and may sustain the effects of ramiprilat by causing increased vasodilation and decreased blood pressure. Ramipril inhibits the RAAS system by binding to and inhibiting ACE thereby preventing the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II. 5 As plasma levels of angiotensin II fall, less activation of the G-protein coupled receptors angiotensin receptor I (AT1R) and angiotensin receptor II (AT2R) occurs.  AT1R mediates vasoconstriction, inflammation, fibrosis, and oxidative stress through a variety of signaling pathways. 5 These include Gq coupling to the inositol triphosphate pathway, activation of phospholipases C, A2, and D which contribute to eicosanoid production, activation of Ca2+-dependent and MAP kinases, Gi and G12/13, and eventual activation of the Jak/STAT pathway leading to cell growth and production of extracellular matrix components. AT1R activation also leads to increased activity of membrane-bound NADH/NADPH oxidase which contributes to production of reactive oxygen species. Decreased activation of this receptor mediates the renoprotective, antihypertensive, and cardioprotective effects of ramipril by reducing inflammation and vasoconstriction. AT2R acts in opposition to the effects of AT1R by activating phosphotyrosine phosphatases which inhibit MAP kinases, inhibiting Ca2+ channel opening, and stimulating cGMP and nitric oxide production leading to vasodilation. 5 These counteracting effects are shared by the Mas receptor which is activated by Ang(1-7), a subtype of angiotensin produced by plasma esterases from AngI or by ACE2 from AngII produced through a secondary pathway by tonin and cathepsin G. Ang(1-7) also activates AT2R although the bulk of its effect is mediated by MasR. ACE is also responsible for the breakdown of bradykinin. 5 The resulting buildup of bradykinin due to ACE inhibition is thought to mediate the characteristic dry-cough as a side effect of ACE inhibitor medications. The extent of absorption is at least 50-60%.Label. Food decreases the rate of absorption from the GI tract without affecting the extent of absorption. The absolute bioavailabilities of ramipril and ramiprilat were 28% and 44%, respectively, when oral administration was compared to intravenous administration. The serum concentration of ramiprilat was unchanged when capsules were opened and the contents dissolved in water, dissolved in apple juice, or suspended in apple sauce. Protein binding of ramipril is about 73% and that of ramiprilat about 56%.Label Protein binding is independent of concentration over the range of 0.1μg/mL-10μg/mL Hepatic metabolism accounts for 75% of total ramipril metabolism.Label 25% of hepatic metabolism produces the active metabolite ramiprilat via liver esterase enzymes. 100% of renal metabolism converts ramipril to ramiprilat. Other metabolites, diketopiperazine ester, the diketopiperazine acid, and the glucuronides of ramipril and ramiprilat, are inactive. Hover over products below to view reaction partners 60% of the parent drug and its metabolites are eliminated in the urine with the remaining 40% eliminated in the feces.Label The drug eliminated in the feces represents both absorbed drug and drug eliminated through biliary excretion although the proportion of these has not been determined. Less than 2% of drug is eliminated in the urine unchanged. Plasma concentrations of ramiprilat decline in a triphasic manner.Label Initial rapid decline represents distribution into tissues and has a half life of 2-4 hours. The half life of the apparent elimination phase is 9-18 hours, which is thought to represent clearance of free drug. The half-life of the terminal elimination phase is > 50 hours and thought to represent clearance of drug bound to ACE due to its slow dissociation. The half life of ramiprilat after multiple daily doses (MDDs) is dose-dependent, ranging from 13-17 hours with 5-10 mg MDDs to 27-36 hours for 2.5 mg MDDs.  The renal clearance of ramipril and ramiprilat was reported to be 7.2 and 77.4 mL/min/1.73m2. 4 The mean renal
clearance of ramipril and ramiprilat is reported to be 10.7 and 126.8 mL/min in healthy elderly patients with normal renal function, additionally the Cmax of ramiprilat is approximately 20% higher in this population. While the pharmacokinetics of ramipril appear unaffected by reduced renal function, the plasma concentration and half-life of ramiprilat are increased. In patient's with hepatic failure the concentration of ramipril is initially increased while the tmax of ramiprilat is prolonged due to a reduced ability to metabolize the drug. However, steady state concentrations of ramiprilat are the same in hepatic failure as in healthy patients. Symptoms of overdose may include excessive peripheral vasodilation (with marked hypotension and shock), bradycardia, electrolyte disturbances, and renal failure. Cases of ACE inhibitor induced hepatotoxicity have been reported in humans and presented as acute jaundice and elevated liver enzymes.3 Removal of the ACE inhbitor resulted in a decline in liver enzymes and re-challenge produced a subsequent increase.  There were no observed tumerogenic effects at chronic doses up to 500mg/kg/day to rats for 24 months or at doses up to 1000mg/kg/day to mice for 18 months. For both species doses were administered by gavage and equivalent to 200 time the maximum recommended human exposure based on body surface area. No mutagenic activity was detected in the Ames test in bacteria, the micronucleus test in mice, unscheduled DNA synthesis in a human cell line, or a forward gene-mutation assay in a Chinese hamster ovary cell line. Several metabolites of ramipril also produced negative results in the Ames test. No effects on fertility were seen in rats at doses up to 500mg/kg/day. No teratogenicity was observed in rats and cynomolgus monkeys at doses 400 times the maximum recommended human exposure nor in rabbites at 2 times the maximum recommended human exposure. LD50 10 g/kg (rat).MSDS
LD50 10.5 g/kg (mouse).MSDS
Baclofen | DrugBank Online Baclofen is a gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist used as a skeletal muscle relaxant used for the relief of painful and uncomfortable muscle spasms caused by a variety of conditions. It is known to be particularly useful in treating muscle spasticity associated with spinal cord injury Label.  This drug has recently been studied for the management of alcohol withdrawal, however, a conclusion has not been made regarding baclofen efficacy in this condition 5, 6, 12. This drug was initially approved by the FDA in 1992 18. It is available in tablet form Label, injection form 18, and powder form (for suspension) 15. Baclofen is administered for the relief of signs and symptoms of spasticity resulting from multiple sclerosis, particularly for the relief of flexor spasms and associated pain and clonus, in addition to muscular rigidity Label. Patients receiving this drug should have reversible spasticity for baclofen to promote the restoration of residual function. This drug is not indicated in the treatment of skeletal muscle spasm caused by rheumatic disorders. The efficacy of baclofen in stroke, cerebral palsy, and Parkinson's disease has not been determined and, therefore, baclofen is not recommended for these conditions Label. In neurological diseases associated with spasm of the skeletal muscles, the clinical effects of baclofen occur due to baclofen action on reflex muscle contractions and of significant relief from painful spasm, automatism, as well as clonus. Baclofen, when used as indicated, improves mobility, increasing levels of independence, and facilitates both passive and active physiotherapy. Baclofen also stimulates gastric acid secretion 16. GABA-B receptor activation by baclofen may produce protective neurological effects. Baclofen also possesses anti-inflammatory properties that may be of interest in the study of addiction treatment 12. Preclinical studies have shown that GABA-B receptors have roles in memory storage and retrieval, reward, motivation, mood, as well as anxiety. Neuroimaging studies in humans indicate that baclofen produces region-specific alterations in brain activity.  The exact mechanism of action of baclofen is not fully understood at this time Label, 17. Many studies indicate that baclofen is a GABA-B receptor agonist 2, 8, 9, 10, 11. Despite this, there is no conclusive evidence that the effects of baclofen on GABA systems are involved in the production of its clinical effects Label.  Baclofen is an effective and widely used antispastic agent with a spinal site of action. Its mechanism of action and pharmacological properties are different from the effects of other antispastic agents. In addition, baclofen has central sites of action, shown by its adverse event profile and general CNS depressant properties 16. GABA-B receptors interact with signal transduction pathways and neurotransmitter systems. Baclofen exerts an antinociceptive effect. The clinical significance of this warrants further research data for clarification.  Baclofen depresses monosynaptic and polysynaptic reflex transmission, by various actions, and possibly including the stimulation of GABAβ-receptors. This stimulation results in the inhibition of excitatory neurotransmitter (glutamate and aspartate) release, which may normally contribute to pain and spasticity16. Although baclofen is an analog of the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-amino-butyric acid (GABA), there are no conclusive data indicating GABA systems are involved in its clinical effects Label. Rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Absorption may be dose-dependent, being reduced with increased doses Label. Baclofen, when introduced directly into the intrathecal space, allows for effective CSF concentrations to be achieved with resulting plasma concentrations 100 times less than concentrations occurring with oral administration 17, Label. Apparent volume of distribution: 59 liters Label. Baclofen does not readily cross the blood-brain barrier Label. 30% Label Approximately 15% of the dose is metabolized in the liver, mainly by deamination Label. In a clinical study with radiolabeled baclofen, approximately 85% of the dose was excreted unchanged in the urine and feces. The γ-hydroxy metabolite, 3-(p-chlorophenyl)-4-hydroxybutyric acid, is formed by the deamination of baclofen Label. Because baclofen is partially metabolized in the liver, patients with impaired liver function should be regularly monitored with liver function tests 16. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Baclofen is rapidly and extensively eliminated from the body. There is significant intersubject variation in elimination rates. Baclofen is excreted mainly by the kidney as unchanged drug. Seventy to eighty (70 - 80%) of a dose is measured in the urine as unchanged drug. The remainder of the dose is excreted as unchanged drug in the feces or as metabolites in the urine and feces. Excretion is complete within 72 hours after administration Label. Elimination half-life: Approximately 5.5 hours Label. Total systemic clearance: 180 mL/min Label
Nicotine | DrugBank Online Nicotine is highly toxic alkaloid. It is the prototypical agonist at nicotinic cholinergic receptors where it dramatically stimulates neurons and ultimately blocks synaptic transmission. Nicotine is also important medically because of its presence in tobacco smoke. For the relief of nicotine withdrawal symptoms and as an aid to smoking cessation. Nicotine, the primary alkaloid in tobacco products binds stereo-selectively to nicotinic-cholinergic receptors on autonomic ganglia, the adrenal medulla, neuromuscular junctions and in the brain. Nicotine exerts two effects, a stimulant effect exerted at the locus ceruleus and a reward effect in the limbic system. Itranvenous administration of nicotine causes release of acetylcholine, norepinephrine, dopamine, serotonine, vasopressin, beta-endorphin and ACTH. Nicotine is a highly addictive substance. Nicotine also induces peripheral vasoconstriction, tachycardia and elevated blood pressure. Nicotine inhalers and patches are used to treat smoking withdrawl syndrome. Nicotine is classified as a stimulant of autonomic ganglia. Nicotine is a stimulant drug that acts as an agonist at nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. These are ionotropic receptors composed up of five homomeric or heteromeric subunits. In the brain, nicotine binds to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors on dopaminergic neurons in the cortico-limbic pathways. This causes the channel to open and allow conductance of multiple cations including sodium, calcium, and potassium. This leads to depolarization, which activates voltage-gated calcium channels and allows more calcium to enter the axon terminal. Calcium stimulates vesicle trafficking towards the plasma membrane and the release of dopamine into the synapse. Dopamine binding to its receptors is responsible the euphoric and addictive properties of nicotine.
Esmolol | DrugBank Online Esmolol, commonly marketed under the trade name Brevibloc, is a cardioselective beta-1 receptor blocker. It has a rapid onset but short duration of action without causing significant intrinsic sympathomimetic or membrane stabilizing activities at recommended therapeutic doses. It works by blocking beta-adrenergic receptors in the heart, which leads to decreased force and rate of heart contractions. Esmolol prevents the action of two naturally occurring substances: epinephrine and norepinephrine. For the rapid control of ventricular rate in patients with atrial fibrillation or atrial flutter in perioperative, postoperative, or other emergent circumstances where short term control of ventricular rate with a short-acting agent is desirable. Also used in noncompensatory sinus tachycardia where the rapid heart rate requires specific intervention. Similar to other beta-blockers, esmolol blocks the agonistic effect of the sympathetic neurotransmitters by competing for receptor binding sites. Because it predominantly blocks the beta-1 receptors in cardiac tissue, it is said to be cardioselective. In general, so-called cardioselective beta-blockers are relatively cardioselective; at lower doses they block beta-1 receptors only but begin to block beta-2 receptors as the dose increases. At therapeutic dosages, esmolol does not have intrinsic sympathomimetic activity (ISA) or membrane-stabilizing (quinidine-like) activity. Antiarrhythmic activity is due to blockade of adrenergic stimulation of cardiac pacemaker potentials. In the Vaughan Williams classification of antiarrhythmics, beta-blockers are considered to be class II agents. Rapidly absorbed, steady-state blood levels for dosages from 50-300 µg/kg/min (0.05-0.3 mg/kg/mm) are obtained within five minutes. 55% bound to human plasma protein, while the acid metabolite is 10% bound. Esmolol undergoes rapid hydrolysis of ester linkage which is catalyzed by esterases found in the cytosol of red blood cells (RBCs). The plasma cholinersterases or RBC membrane acetylcholinesterases are not involved in this metabolic reaction. Metabolism of the drug occurs mainly in RBCs to form a free acid metabolite (with 1/1500 the activity of esmolol) and methanol. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Consistent with the high rate of blood-based metabolism of esmolol hydrochloride, less than 2% of the drug is excreted unchanged in the urine. The acid metabolite has an elimination half-life of about 3.7 hours and is excreted in the urine with a clearance approximately equivalent to the glomerular filtration rate.
Ethchlorvynol | DrugBank Online Ethchlorvynol is a sedative and hypnotic drug. It has been used to treat insomnia, but has been largely superseded and is only offered where an intolerance or allergy to other drugs exists. Used for short-term hypnotic therapy in the management of insomnia for periods of up to one week in duration; however, this medication generally has been replaced by other sedative-hypnotic agents. Ethchlorvynol is a sedative drug and schedule IV (USA) controlled substance. It produces cerebral depression, however the exact mechanism of action is not known. Although the exact mechanism of action is unknown, ethchlorvynol appears to depress the central nervous system in a manner similar to that of barbiturates. Barbiturates bind at a distinct binding sites associated with a Cl- ionopore at the GABAA receptor, increasing the duration of time for which the Cl- ionopore is open. The post-synaptic inhibitory effect of GABA in the thalamus is, therefore, prolonged. Rapidly absorbed from gastrointestinal tract. 35-50% About 90% of a dose is metabolized in the liver. Some ethchlorvynol may also be metabolized in the kidneys. Ethchlorvynol and metabolites undergo extensive enterohepatic recirculation. Plasma half-life is approximately 10 to 20 hours, terminal half-life is 21-100 hours. Symptoms of overdose include thrombocytopenia. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Bayley, A. and McLamore, W.M.; U.S. Patent 2,746,900; May 22,1956; assigned to Chas.
Tramadol | DrugBank Online Tramadol is a centrally acting synthetic opioid analgesic and SNRI (serotonin/norepinephrine reuptake-inhibitor) that is structurally related to codeine and morphine. Due to its good tolerability profile and multimodal mechanism of action, tramadol is generally considered a lower-risk opioid option for the treatment of moderate to severe pain. It is considered a Step 2 option on the World Health Organization's pain ladder and has about 1/10th of the potency of morphine.  Tramadol differs from other traditional opioid medications in that it doesn't just act as a μ-opioid agonist, but also affects monoamines by modulating the effects of neurotransmitters involved in the modulation of pain such as serotonin and norepinpehrine which activate descending pain inhibitory pathways.13 Tramadol's effects on serotonin and norepinephrine mimic the effects of other SNRI antidepressants such as duloxetine and venlafaxine. Tramadol exists as a racemic mixture consisting of two pharmacologically active enantiomers that both contribute to its analgesic property through different mechanisms and are also themselves metabolized into active metabolites: (+)-tramadol and its primary metabolite (+)-O-desmethyl-tramadol (M1) are agonists of the μ opioid receptor while (+)-tramadol inhibits serotonin reuptake and (-)-tramadol inhibits norepinephrine reuptake. These pathways are complementary and synergistic, improving tramadol's ability to modulate the perception of and response to pain.12,25  Tramadol has also been shown to affect a number of other pain modulators within the central nervous system as well as non-neuronal inflammatory markers and immune mediators.17,18,20,26,16 Due to the broad spectrum of targets involved in pain and inflammation, it's not surprising that the evidence has shown that tramadol is effective for a number of pain types including neuropathic pain, post-operative pain, lower back pain, as well as pain associated with labour, osteoarthritis, fibromyalgia, and cancer. Due to its SNRI activity, tramadol also has anxiolytic, antidepressant, and anti-shivering effects which are all frequently found as comorbidities with pain.16 Similar to other opioid medications, tramadol poses a risk for development of tolerance, dependence and abuse. If used in higher doses, or with other opioids, there is a dose-related risk of overdose, respiratory depression, and death.22,30 However, unlike other opioid medications, tramadol use also carries a risk of seizure and serotonin syndrome, particularly if used with other serotonergic medications.23,24 Tramadol is approved for the management of moderate to severe pain in adults.29,30 Tramadol is also used off-label in the treatment of premature ejaculation.8 Tramadol modulates the descending pain pathways within the central nervous system through the binding of parent and M1 metabolite to μ-opioid receptors and the weak inhibition of the reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin.7,6  Apart from analgesia, tramadol may produce a constellation of symptoms (including dizziness, somnolence, nausea, constipation, sweating and pruritus) similar to that of other opioids.  Central Nervous System In contrast to morphine, tramadol has not been shown to cause histamine release. At therapeutic doses, tramadol has no effect on heart rate, left-ventricular function or cardiac index. Orthostatic hypotension has been observed.29 Tramadol produces respiratory depression by direct action on brain stem respiratory centres. The respiratory depression involves both a reduction in the responsiveness of the brain stem centres to increases in CO2 tension and to electrical stimulation.  Tramadol depresses the cough reflex by a direct effect on the cough centre in the medulla. Antitussive effects may occur with doses lower than those usually required for analgesia. Tramadol causes miosis, even in total darkness. Pinpoint pupils are a sign of opioid overdose but
are not pathognomonic (e.g., pontine lesions of hemorrhagic or ischemic origin may produce
similar findings). Marked mydriasis rather than miosis may be seen with hypoxia in the setting of
oxycodone overdose.30 Seizures have been reported in patients receiving tramadol within the recommended dosage range. Spontaneous post-marketing reports indicate that seizure risk is increased with doses of tramadol above the recommended range. Risk of convulsions may also increase in patients with epilepsy, those with a history of seizures
or in patients with a recognized risk for seizure (such as head trauma, metabolic disorders,
Vidarabine | DrugBank Online A nucleoside antibiotic isolated from Streptomyces antibioticus. It has some antineoplastic properties and has broad spectrum activity against DNA viruses in cell cultures and significant antiviral activity against infections caused by a variety of viruses such as the herpes viruses, the vaccinia VIRUS and varicella zoster virus. For treatment of chickenpox - varicella, herpes zoster and herpes simplex Vidarabine is a synthetic purine nucleoside analogue with in vitro and in vivo inhibitory activity against herpes simplex virus types 1 (HSV-1), 2 (HSV-2), and varicella-zoster virus (VZV). The inhibitory activity of Vidarabine is highly selective due to its affinity for the enzyme thymidine kinase (TK) encoded by HSV and VZV. This viral enzyme converts Vidarabine into Vidarabine monophosphate, a nucleotide analogue. The monophosphate is further converted into diphosphate by cellular guanylate kinase and into triphosphate by a number of cellular enzymes. In vitro, Vidarabine triphosphate stops the DNA replication of herpes virus by being incorporated into the DNA strand and preventing the formation of phosphodiester bridges between bases. This ultimately leads to destabilization of the viral DNA strands.  Vidarabine stops replication of herpes viral DNA in 2 ways: 1) competitive inhibition of viral DNA polymerase, and consequently 2) incorporation into and termination of the growing viral DNA chain.
Fluconazole | DrugBank Online Fluconazole, commonly known as Diflucan, is an antifungal drug used for the treatment of both systemic and superficial fungal infections in a variety of tissues. It was initially approved by the FDA in 1990. This drug is an azole antifungal, in the same drug family as ketoconazole and itraconazole. Fluconazole has many advantages over the other antifungal drugs including the option of oral administration. The side effect profile of this drug is minimal. It has been demonstrated as an efficacious treatment for vaginal yeast infections in one single dose.2 Fluconazole can be administered in the treatment of the following fungal infections27: 1) Vaginal yeast infections caused by Candida
2) Systemic Candida infections
3) Both esophageal and oropharyngeal candidiasis
4) Cryptococcal meningitis
5) UTI (urinary tract infection) by Candida
6) Peritonitis (inflammation of the peritoneum) caused by Candida A note on fungal infection prophylaxis Patients receiving bone marrow transplantation who are treated with cytotoxic chemotherapy and/or radiation therapy may be predisposed to candida infections, and may receive fluconazole as prophylactic therapy.27 A note on laboratory testing Obtaining specimens for fungal culture and other important laboratory studies such as serology or pathology is advised before starting fluconazole therapy in order to isolate the organisms to be eliminated through treatment. It is permissible to start therapy before the results are available, however, adjusting the therapy once laboratory results confirm the causative organism may be necessary.27 Fluconazole has been demonstrated to show fungistatic activity against the majority of strains of the following microorganisms, curing fungal infections27: Candida albicans, Candida glabrata (Many strains are intermediately susceptible), Candida parapsilosis, Candida tropicalis, Cryptococcus neoformans This is achieved through steroidal inhibition in fungal cells, interfering with cell wall synthesis and growth as well as cell adhesion, thereby treating fungal infections and their symptoms.27,2,5 The fungistatic activity of fluconazole has also been shown in normal and immunocompromised animal models with both systemic and intracranial fungal infections caused by Cryptococcus neoformans and for systemic infections caused by Candida albicans.27 It is important to note that resistant organisms have been found against various strains of organisms treated with fluconazole.11,12,13 This further substantiates the need to perform susceptibility testing when fluconazole is considered as an antifungal therapy.14,20  A note on steroidal effects of fluconazole There has been some concern that fluconazole may interfere with and inactivate human steroids/hormones due to the inhibition of hepatic cytochrome enzymes.[L6496] Fluconazole has demonstrated to be more selective for fungal cytochrome P-450 enzymes than for a variety of mammalian cytochrome P-450 enzymes. Fluconazole 50 mg administered daily for up to 28 days in individuals of reproductive age has been show to have no effect on testosterone plasma concentrations of males and plasma concentrations of steroids in females. A 200-400 mg dose of fluconazole showed no clinically relevant effect on steroid levels or on ACTH-stimulated steroid response in healthy males, in one clinical study mentioned on the European Medicines Agency label.[L6496] Other studies have shown no significant effects of fluconazole on steroid levels, further confirming these data.10,18 Fluconazole is a very selective inhibitor of fungal cytochrome P450 dependent enzyme lanosterol 14-α-demethylase. This enzyme normally works to convert lanosterol to ergosterol, which is necessary for fungal cell wall synthesis. The free nitrogen atom located on the azole ring of fluconazole binds with a single iron atom located in the heme group of lanosterol 14-α-demethylase.16 This prevents oxygen activation and, as a result, inhibits the demethylation of lanosterol, halting the process of ergosterol biosynthesis.17 Methylated sterols are then found to accumulate in the fungal cellular membrane, leading to an arrest of fungal growth.16 These accumulated sterols negatively affect the structure and function of the fungal cell plasma membrane.8 Fluconazole resistance may arise from an alteration in the amount or function of the target enzyme (lanosterol 14-α-demethylase), altered access to this enzyme, or a combination of the above.8 Other mechanisms may also be implicated, and studies are ongoing.19 The pharmacokinetic properties of fluconazole are comparable after administration by the intravenous (IV) and oral (PO) routes. In healthy volunteers, the bioavailability of orally administered fluconazole is measured to be above 90%.27 It is extensively absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract when an oral dose is taken.23 Oral absorption is not affected by food intake with fluconazole but may increase the time until the maximum concentration is reached.21 Tmax (or the time taken to achieve the maximum concentration) in one clinical study of healthy patients receiving 50 mg/kg of fluconazole was 3 hours.21  Peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) in fasting and healthy volunteers occur between 1-2 hours post-dose.27 Steady-state concentrations are achieved within 5 to 10 days after oral doses of 50-400 mg administered once daily. Administration of a loading dose on the first day of fluconazole treatment, or twice the usual daily dose, leads to plasma concentrations close to steady-state by the second day.27 Mean AUC (area under the curve) was 20.3 in healthy volunteers receiving 25 mg of fluconazole.21 A note on the capsule and powder form and malabsorption syndromes The capsule forms of fluconazole often contain lactose and should not be administered with hereditary galactose intolerance, Lapp lactase enzyme deficiency, or malabsorption of glucose/galactose.27 The powder form, used for the oral suspension, lists sucrose as an ingredient and should not be used in patients who have been diagnosed with fructose, glucose/galactose malabsorption, and sucrase-isomaltase enzyme deficiency.27 The apparent volume of distribution is said to be similar to the volume of distribution of total body water.27 One clinical study of healthy volunteers administered 50 mg/kg of fluconazole was 39L, based on a body weight of 60kg.21 Fluconazole shows substantial penetration in many body fluids, which is a property that renders it an ideal treatment for systemic fungal infections, especially when administered over a longer time.21,27 Fluconazole is found in high concentrations in the stratum corneum and dermis-epidermis of skin, in addition to eccrine sweat. Fluconazole is found to accumulate especially well in the stratum corneum, which is beneficial in superficial fungal infections.[L6496] Saliva and sputum concentrations of fluconazole are found to be similar to the plasma concentrations.25 In patients diagnosed with fungal meningitis, fluconazole CSF (cerebrospinal fluid) levels are measured to be about 80% of the corresponding plasma levels. Therefore, fluconazole crosses the blood-brain barrier[L6496]. The meninges are increasingly permeable to fluconazole in states of inflammation, facilitating treatment in meningitis.22 The protein binding of fluconazole is low and estimated to be 11 to 12%.27,21 Fluconazole is metabolized minimally in the liver. Fluconazole is an inhibitor of CYP2C9, CYP3A4 and CYP2C19.27 Two metabolites were detected in the urine of healthy volunteers taking a 50 mg radiolabeled dose of fluconazole; a glucuronidated metabolite on the hydroxyl moiety (6.5%) and a fluconazole N-oxide metabolite (2%).23 The same study indicated that no signs of metabolic cleavage of fluconazole were observed, suggesting a difference in metabolism when compared to other agents in the same drug class, which are heavily metabolized in the liver.23,24 Hover over products below to view reaction partners In normal volunteers, fluconazole is cleared primarily by renal excretion, with approximately 80% of the administered dose measured in the urine as unchanged drug.27 About 11% of the dose is excreted in the urine as metabolites.27. A study of a 50mg radiolabeled dose of fluconazole revealed that 93.3% of the dose was found excreted in the urine.23 A note on renal failure The pharmacokinetics of fluconazole are significantly affected by renal dysfunction. The dose of fluconazole may need to be reduced in patients with decreased renal function. A 3-hour hemodialysis treatment lowers plasma fluconazole concentrations by about 50%.27 The terminal elimination half-life in the plasma is approximately 30 hours (range: 20-50 hours) after oral administration.27
Erythromycin | DrugBank Online Erythromycin is a bacteriostatic antibiotic drug produced by a strain of Saccharopolyspora erythraea (formerly Streptomyces erythraeus) and belongs to the macrolide group of antibiotics which consists of Azithromycin, Clarithromycin, Spiramycin and others. It was originally discovered in 1952.20 Erythromycin is widely used for treating a variety of infections, including those caused by gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria.20,21 It is available for administration in various forms, including intravenous, topical, and eye drop preparations.20 Erythromycin is indicated in the treatment of infections caused by susceptible strains of various bacteria.21 The indications for erythromycin have been summarized by body system below: Respiratory infections Mild to moderate upper respiratory tract infections caused by Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus pneumoniae, or Haemophilus influenzae (when used concomitantly with appropriate doses of sulfonamides) can be treated with erythromycin.21 Mild to moderate lower-respiratory tract infections due to susceptible strains of Streptococcus pneumoniae or Streptococcus pyogenes may also be treated. Erythromycin treats listeriosis caused by Listeria monocytogenes may also be treated with erythromycin.21
Sildenafil | DrugBank Online In eliciting its mechanism of action, sildenafil ultimately prevents or minimizes the breakdown of cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP) by inhibiting cGMP specific phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) 11,12,13,14,15,16,8,9. The result of doing so allows cGMP present in both the penis and pulmonary vasculature to elicit smooth muscle relaxation and vasodilation that subsequently facilitates relief in pulmonary arterial hypertension and the increased flow of blood into the spongy erectile tissue of the penis that consequently allows it to grow in size and become erect and rigid 11,12,13,14,15,16,8,9. Interestingly enough, it is precisely via this mechanism why sildenafil was at first researched as a potential treatment for angina - or chest pain associated with inadequate blood flow to the heart - before being serendipitously indicated for treating erectile dysfunction in the late 1980s 7. Nevertheless, it is because of this mechanism that sildenafil is also indicated for treating pulmonary arterial hypertension but is also additionally notorious for interacting with various anti-anginal or anti-hypertensive agents to develop potentially rapid, excessive, and/or fatal hypotensive crises 4,5,6. Regardless, sildenafil, among a variety of other similar or related PDE5 inhibitors, has become a common and effective treatment for erectile dysfunction and since its formal approval for medical use in the public in 1998 7, continues to see millions of prescriptions written for it internationally. Although the medication has historically been most popularly recognized as Pfizer's brand name Viagra, sildenafil is currently available generically and even as a non-prescription over the counter medication in some countries 10. Sildenafil is a phosphodiesterase-5 (PDE5) inhibitor that is predominantly employed for two primary indications: (1) the treatment of erectile dysfunction 5,8,12,13,16; and (2) treatment of pulmonary hypertension, where:
Azithromycin | DrugBank Online Azithromycin is a broad-spectrum macrolide antibiotic with a long half-life and a high degree of tissue penetration 3. It was initially approved by the FDA in 1991 4. It is primarily used for the treatment of respiratory, enteric and genitourinary infections and may be used instead of other macrolides for some sexually transmitted and enteric infections. It is structurally related to erythromycin 2. Azithromycin [9-deoxo-9a-aza-9a-methyl-9a-homoerythromycin] is a part of the azalide subclass of macrolides, and contains a 15-membered ring, with a methyl-substituted nitrogen instead of a carbonyl group at the 9a position on the aglycone ring, which allows for the prevention of its metabolism. This differentiates azithromycin from other types of macrolides 4. In March 2020, a small study was funded by the French government to investigate the treatment of COVID-19 with a combination of azithromycin and the anti-malaria drug hydroxychloroquine. The results were positive, all patients taking the combination were virologically cured within 6 days of treatment, however, larger studies are required.9 Azithromycin should be used only to treat or prevent infections that are proven or strongly suspected to be caused by susceptible bacteria in order to prevent the development antimicrobial resistance and maintain the efficacy of azithromycin Label. Azithromycin is indicated for the treatment of patients with mild to moderate infections caused by susceptible strains of the microorganisms listed in the specific conditions below. Recommended dosages, duration of therapy and considerations for various patient populations may vary among these infections. Refer to the FDA label and "Indications" section of this drug entry for detailed information Label.  Adults: Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease due to Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis or Streptococcus pneumoniae Acute bacterial sinusitis due to Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis or Streptococcus pneumoniae Community-acquired pneumonia due to Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae or Streptococcus pneumoniae in patients appropriate for oral therapy Pharyngitis/tonsillitis caused by Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative to first-line therapy in individuals who cannot use first-line therapy.
Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections due to Staphylococcus aureus, Streptococcus pyogenes, or Streptococcus agalactiae. Abscesses usually require surgical drainage. Urethritis and cervicitis due to Chlamydia trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae. Genital ulcer disease in men due to Haemophilus ducreyi (chancroid). Due to the small number of women included in clinical trials, the efficacy of azithromycin in the treatment of chancroid in women has not been established. Pediatric Patients Acute otitis media caused by Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis or Streptococcus pneumoniae Community-acquired pneumonia due to Chlamydophila pneumoniae, Haemophilus influenzae, Mycoplasma pneumoniae or Streptococcus pneumoniae in patients appropriate for oral therapy. Pharyngitis/tonsillitis caused by Streptococcus pyogenes as an alternative to first-line therapy in individuals who cannot use first-line therapy. Macrolides stop bacterial growth by inhibiting protein synthesis and translation, treating bacterial infections 4.
Pantoprazole | DrugBank Online Pantoprazole is a first-generation proton pump inhibitor (PPI) used for the management of gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), for gastric protection to prevent recurrence of stomach ulcers or gastric damage from chronic use of NSAIDs, and for the treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions including Zollinger-Ellison (ZE) Syndrome. It can also be found in quadruple regimens for the treatment of H. pylori infections along with other antibiotics including amoxicillin, clarithromycin, and metronidazole, for example.1023 Its efficacy is considered similar to other medications within the PPI class including omeprazole, esomeprazole, lansoprazole, dexlansoprazole, and rabeprazole. Pantoprazole exerts its stomach acid-suppressing effects by preventing the final step in gastric acid production by covalently binding to sulfhydryl groups of cysteines found on the (H+, K+)-ATPase enzyme at the secretory surface of gastric parietal cell. This effect leads to inhibition of both basal and stimulated gastric acid secretion, irrespective of the stimulus. As the binding of pantoprazole to the (H+, K+)-ATPase enzyme is irreversible and new enzyme needs to be expressed in order to resume acid secretion, pantoprazole's duration of antisecretory effect persists longer than 24 hours.Label Due to their good safety profile and as several PPIs are available over the counter without a prescription, their current use in North America is widespread. Long term use of PPIs such as pantoprazole have been associated with possible adverse effects, however, including increased susceptibility to bacterial infections (including gastrointestinal C. difficile), reduced absorption of micronutrients including iron and B12, and an increased risk of developing hypomagnesemia and hypocalcemia which may contribute to osteoporosis and bone fractures later in life.12 PPIs such as pantoprazole have also been shown to inhibit the activity of dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase (DDAH), an enzyme necessary for cardiovascular health. DDAH inhibition causes a consequent accumulation of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor asymmetric dimethylarginie (ADMA), which is thought to cause the association of PPIs with increased risk of cardiovascular events in patients with unstable coronary syndromes.14,15 Pantoprazole doses should be slowly lowered, or tapered, before discontinuing as rapid discontinuation of PPIs such as pantoprazole may cause a rebound effect and a short term increase in hypersecretion.13 Pantoprazole Injection: Treatment of gastroesophageal reflux disease associated with a history of erosive esophagitis Pantoprazole for injection is indicated for short-term treatment (7-10 days) of patients having gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) with a history of erosive esophagitis, as an alternative to oral medication in patients who are unable to continue taking pantoprazole delayed-release tablets. Safety and efficacy of pantoprazole injection as the initial treatment of patients having GERD with a history of erosive esophagitis have not been demonstrated at this time.Label Pathological Hypersecretion Associated with Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome Pantoprazole for injection is indicated for the treatment of pathological hypersecretory conditions associated with Zollinger-Ellison Syndrome or other neoplastic conditions.Label Pantoprazole delayed-release oral suspension: Short-Term Treatment of erosive esophagitis associated with gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) Indicated in adults and pediatric patients five years of age and above for the short-term treatment (up to 8 weeks) in the healing and symptomatic relief of erosive esophagitis. For adult patients who have not healed after 8 weeks of treatment, an additional 8-week course of pantoprazole may be considered. Safety of treatment beyond 8 weeks in pediatric patients has not been determined.19 Maintenance of healing of erosive esophagitis Indicated for maintenance of healing of erosive esophagitis and reduction in relapse rates of daytime and nighttime heartburn symptoms in adult patients with GERD.19 Pathological hypersecretory conditions including Zollinger-Ellison syndrome Indicated for the long-term treatment of the above conditions.19 This drug acts to decrease gastric acid secretion, which reduces stomach acidity. Pantoprazole administration leads to long-lasting inhibition of gastric acid secretion.16 General Effects Pantoprazole has been shown to reduce acid reflux-related symptoms, heal inflammation of the esophagus, and improve patient quality of life more effectively than histamine-2 receptor antagonists (H2 blockers). This drug has an excellent safety profile and a low incidence of drug interactions. It can be used safely in various high-risk patient populations, including the elderly and those with renal failure or moderate hepatic dysfunction.1 Due to their good safety profile and as several PPIs are available over the counter without a prescription, their current use in North America is widespread. Long term use of PPIs such as pantoprazole have been associated with possible adverse effects, however, including increased susceptibility to bacterial infections (including gastrointestinal C. difficile), reduced absorption of micronutrients including iron and B12, and an increased risk of developing hypomagnesemia and hypocalcemia which may contribute to osteoporosis and bone fractures later in life.12 PPIs such as pantoprazole have also been shown to inhibit the activity of dimethylarginine dimethylaminohydrolase (DDAH), an enzyme necessary for cardiovascular health. DDAH inhibition causes a consequent accumulation of the nitric oxide synthase inhibitor asymmetric dimethylarginie (ADMA), which is thought to cause the association of PPIs with increased risk of cardiovascular events in patients with unstable coronary syndromes 14,15.  A note on laboratory testing abnormalities During treatment with antisecretory medicinal products such as pantoprazole, serum gastrin (a peptide hormone that stimulates secretion of gastric acid) increases in response to the decreased acid secretion caused by proton pump inhibition. The increased gastrin level may interfere with investigations for neuroendocrine tumors. Published evidence suggests that proton pump inhibitors should be stopped 14 days before chromogranin A (CgA) measurements. This permits chromogranin A levels, that might be falsely elevated after proton pump inhibitor treatment, to return to the normal reference range.21  Reports have been made of false-positive results in urine screening tests for tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) in patients receiving the majority of proton pump inhibitors, including pantoprazole. A confirmatory method should be used.21 Hydrochloric acid (HCl) secretion into the gastric lumen is a process regulated mainly by the H(+)/K(+)-ATPase of the proton pump, expressed in high quantities by the parietal cells of the stomach.9 ATPase is an enzyme on the parietal cell membrane that facilitates hydrogen and potassium exchange through the cell, which normally results in the extrusion of potassium and formation of HCl (gastric acid).  Proton pump inhibitors such as pantoprazole are substituted benzimidazole derivatives, weak bases, which accumulate in the acidic space of the parietal cell before being converted in the canaliculi (small canal) of the gastric parietal cell, an acidic environment, to active sulfenamide derivatives. This active form then makes disulfide bonds with important cysteines on the gastric acid pump, inhibiting its function.6 Specifically, pantoprazole binds to the sulfhydryl group of H+, K+-ATPase, which is an enzyme implicated in accelerating the final step in the acid secretion pathway. The enzyme is inactivated, inhibiting gastric acid secretion.7 The inhibition of gastric acid secretion is stronger with proton pump inhibitors such as pantoprazole and lasts longer than with the H(2) antagonists.9  Pantoprazole is absorbed after oral administration as an enteric-coated tablet with maximum plasma concentrations attained within 2 – 3 hours and a bioavailability of 77% that does not change with multiple dosing 6. Following an oral dose of 40mg, the Cmax is approximately 2.5 μg/mL with a tmax of 2 to 3 hours. The AUC is approximately 5 μg.h/mL. There is no food effect on AUC (bioavailability) and Cmax.22 Delayed-release tablets are prepared as enteric-coated tablets so that absorption of pantoprazole begins only after the tablet leaves the stomach. The apparent volume of distribution of pantoprazole is approximately 11.0-23.6 L, distributing mainly in the extracellular fluid.Label Approximately 98%Label Pantoprazole is heavily metabolized in the liver by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system. Pantoprazole metabolism is independent of the route of administration (intravenous or oral). The main metabolic pathway is demethylation, by CYP2C19 hepatic cytochrome enzyme, followed by sulfation; other metabolic pathways include oxidation by CYP3A4. There is no evidence that any of the pantoprazole metabolites are pharmacologically active.19 After hepatic metabolism, almost 80% of an oral or intravenous dose is excreted as metabolites in urine; the remainder is found in feces and originates from biliary secretion.8 Hover over products below to view reaction partners After a single oral or intravenous (IV) dose of 14C-labeled pantoprazole to healthy, normal metabolizing subjects, about 71% of the dose was excreted in the urine, with 18% excreted in the feces by biliary excretion. There was no kidney excretion of unchanged pantoprazole.19 About 1 hour19 Adults: With intravenous administration of pantoprazole to extensive metabolizers, total clearance is 7.6-14.0 L/h.16
Citalopram | DrugBank Online Citalopram belongs to a class of antidepressant agents known as selective serotonin-reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and is widely used to treat the symptoms of depression. Its chemical structure is unrelated to that of other SSRIs or of tricyclic, tetracyclic, or other prescribed antidepressants Label. Citalopram is also known as Celexa, and available in tablet and solution forms Label. This drug was initially approved by the FDA in 1998 18. For the treatment of depression, as indicated by the FDA label Label. Off-label indications include but are not limited to: treatment of sexual dysfunction, post-stroke behavioural changes, ethanol abuse, obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) in children, and diabetic neuropathy Label, 1, 2, 3, 4, 10, 11, 12. Citalopram belongs to a class of antidepressants known as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). It has been found to relieve or manage symptoms of depression, anxiety, eating disorders and obsessive-compulsive disorder among other mood disorders. The antidepressant, anti-anxiety, and other actions of citalopram are linked to its inhibition of CNS central uptake of serotonin Label. Serotonergic abnormalities have been reported in patients with mood disorders. Behavioral and neuropsychological of effects of serotonin include the regulation of mood, perception, reward, anger, aggression, appetite, memory, sexuality, and attention, as examples. The onset of action for depression is approximately 1 to 4 weeks. The complete response may take 8-12 weeks after initiation of citalopram 16. In vitro studies demonstrate that citalopram is a strong and selective inhibitor of neuronal serotonin reuptake and has weak effects on norepinephrine and dopamine central reuptake. The chronic administration of citalopram has been shown to downregulate central norepinephrine receptors, similar to other drugs effective in the treatment of major depressive disorder. Citalopram does not inhibit monoamine oxidase 5. The mechanism of action of citalopram results from its inhibition of CNS neuronal reuptake of serotonin (5-HT) Label. The molecular target for citalopram is the serotonin transporter (solute carrier family 6 member 4, SLC6A4), inhibiting its serotonin reuptake in the synaptic cleft 13. Citalopram binds with significantly less affinity to histamine, acetylcholine, and norepinephrine receptors than tricyclic antidepressant drugs Label. This drug has no or neglible affinity for 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A, dopamine D1 and D2, α1-, α2-, and_ β­ adrenergic, _histamine H1, gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), muscarinic, cholinergic, and benzodiazepine receptors. Antagonism of muscarinic, histaminergic, and adrenergic receptors is thought to be associated with several anticholinergic, sedative, and cardiovascular effects of other psychotropic drugs Label. Rapidly and well absorbed from the GI tract. Peak plasma concentrations occur within 4 hours of a single orally administered dose. Bioavailability is 80% following oral administration. Food does not affect absorption Label. 12 L/kg Label Citalopram is highly lipophilic and likely widely distributed throughout the body, including the blood-brain-barrier. However, its metabolite, demethylcitalopram does not penetrate the blood-brain-barrier well Label. Citalopram, dimethylcitalopram, and didemethylcitalopram are 80% bound to plasma proteins Label. Citalopram is metabolized mainly in the liver via N-demethylation to its main metabolite, demethylcitalopram by CYP2C19 and CYP3A4 7. Other metabolites include didemethylcitalopram via CYP2D6 metabolism, and citalopram N-oxide via monoamine oxidase enzymes and aldehyde oxidase. It is a deaminated propionic acid derivative 7.  After a single dose of citalopram, peak blood concentrations occur at approximately 4 hours Label. This drug in is found mainly unchanged in the plasma as citalopram. Cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4 and 2C19 isozymes appear to be heavily involved in producing demethylcitalopram. Demethylcitalopram appears to be further N-demethylated by CYP2D6 to didemethylcitalopram. Citalopram metabolites exert little pharmacologic activity in comparison to the parent drug and are not likely to contribute to the clinical effect of citalopram 5. Hover over products below to view reaction partners 12-23% of an oral dose of citalopram is found unchanged in the urine, while 10% of the dose is found in the faeces Label. About 35 hours Label.  The systemic clearance of citalopram is 330 mL/min, with approximately 20% renal clearance Label. Oral (Human) LD: 56 mg/kg
Diflorasone | DrugBank Online Diflorasone is a topical corticosteroid used to treat itching and inflammation of the skin. For relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses. Like other topical corticosteroids, diflorasone has anti-inflammatory, antipruritic, and vasoconstrictive properties. Once absorbed through the skin, topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids. Diflorasone is a potent topical corticosteroid that should not be used with occlusive dressings. It is recommended that treatment should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks and therapy should be discontinued when adequate results have been achieved. The precise mechanism of the antiinflammatory activity of topical steroids in the treatment of steroid-responsive dermatoses, in general, is uncertain. However, corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins, collectively called lipocortins. It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid. Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2. Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from intact healthy skin. The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors, including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier. Occlusion, inflammation and/or other disease processes in the skin may also increase percutaneous absorption. Bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees. Metabolized, primarily in the liver, and then excreted by the kidneys. Topically applied diflorasone can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects. Symptoms of overdose include thinning of skin and suppression of adrenal cortex (decreased ability to respond to stress). Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Lincoln, F.H., Schneider, W.P. and Spero, G.B.; U.S. Patent 3,557,158; January 19,1971; assigned to The Upjohn Company.
Enflurane | DrugBank Online Enflurane is a halogenated inhalational anesthetic initially approved by the FDA in 1972. Since this date, it has been withdrawn from the US market.18,19 Unlike its other inhalational anesthetic counterparts including isoflurane and halothane, enflurane is known to induce seizure activity. In addition, it is known to cause increased cardio depressant effects when compared to other inhaled anesthetics.5 Enflurane may be used for both the induction and maintenance of general anesthesia. It can also be used to induce analgesia for vaginal delivery. Low concentrations of enflurane can also be used as an adjunct to general anesthetic drugs during delivery by Cesarean section.18 Enflurane rapidly induces anesthesia via the stimulation of inhibitory neural channels and the inhibition of excitatory neural channels. Muscle relaxation, obtundation of pharyngeal and laryngeal reflexes, and lowering of blood pressure are some of the main pharmacodynamic effects of this drug.17 Enflurane also decreases cardiac muscle contractility.5  High concentrations of enflurane may lead to uterine relaxation and increase the risk of uterine bleeding during delivery.17 Rare but clinically significant elevations in ALT may indicate hepatoxicity from the use of enflurane.3 In some susceptible patients, enflurane may cause malignant hyperthermia.17 The mechanism of action of enflurane is not completely established.17 Studies on rats indicate that enflurane binds to GABAA and glycine receptors, causing depressant effects at the ventral neural horn. It has been reported that 30% of the central nervous system depressant effects on the spinal cord after enflurane is administered are caused by the (GABA-A) receptor while binding to glycine receptors is responsible for about 20 % of the depressant effects.2 The relevance of these findings to humans is unknown. Other studies have found that enflurane binds to the calcium channels in the cardiac sarcoplasmic reticulum causing cardio depressant effects.7,8,9 Other studies support that this drug potentiates glycine receptors, which results in central nervous system depressant effects.12,11  Enflurane is rapidly absorbed into the circulation through the lungs.14,18 The minimum alveolar concentration is oxygen is 1.68%.5 Enflurane distributes to the brain, blood, and subcutaneous fat.13 The plasma protein binding for enflurane is 97%.16 Enflurane is metabolized by the CYP2E1 enzyme in the liver to produce inorganic fluoride ions, the major metabolite of enflurane metabolism.10 One reference indicates that enflurane is only 2-5% eliminated after oxidative metabolism in the liver, however more recent evidence suggests that about 9% is eliminated via hepatic oxidation.5 Hover over products below to view reaction partners Metabolism accounts for 5-9% of enflurane elimination, sometimes causing nephrotoxicity. Excretion through the skin is believed to be minimal.5  The LD50 of enflurane in rats is 14000 ppm/3 hour(s) when inhaled.20
There is limited information in the literature about enflurane overdose. Hepatotoxicity, cardiotoxicity, nephrotoxicity, and neurotoxicity are expected.18 One report in the literature of an enflurane overdose describes an accidental fatal overdose in a 21-year-old male.13 About 72 hours after death, high amounts of enflurane were found in the brain, blood, and subcutaneous fat. Gas chromatographic studies revealed enflurane concentrations of 350 mg/l-1 in the brain, 130 mg/l-1 in the blood, and 100 mg/l-1 in the subcutaneous fat.13 In the event of an enflurane overdose, immediately stop the administration of enflurane, establish a patent airway, and administer pure oxygen by assisted or controlled ventilation.18  Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Terrell, R.C.; U.S. Patents 3,469,011; September 23,1969 and 3,527,813; September 8,
Reboxetine | DrugBank Online Reboxetine is an antidepressant drug used in the treatment of clinical depression, panic disorder and ADD/ADHD. Its mesylate (i.e. methanesulfonate) salt is sold under tradenames including Edronax, Norebox, Prolift, Solvex, Davedax or Vestra. Reboxetine has two chiral centers, but it only exists as two enantiomers, (R,R)-(-)- and (S,S)-(+)-reboxetine. For the treatment of clinical depression. Reboxetine is a selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (NaRI), the first drug of new antidepressant class. Reboxetine is an a-ariloxybenzyl derivative of morpholine. Reboxetine is primarily used to treat depression but has also been found useful in the treatment of narcolepsy and panic disorders. Reboxetine is a selective inhibitor of noradrenaline reuptake. It inhibits noradrenaline reuptake in vitro to a similar extent to the tricyclic antidepressant desmethylimipramine. Reboxetine does not affect dopamine or serotonin reuptake and it has low in vivo and in vitro affinity for adrenergic, cholinergic, histaminergic, dopaminergic and serotonergic receptors. Reboxetine is rapidly and extensively absorbed following oral administration. 98% Reboxetine is metabolized by dealkylation, hydroxylation and oxidation followed
by glucuronide or sulphate conjugation. It is metabolized by the cytochrome P450
Ranolazine | DrugBank Online Chronic angina is a common cardiovascular condition affecting millions worldwide and causes significant disability while interfering with daily activities.11 Ranolazine is a well-tolerated piperazine derivative used for the management of this condition, offering relief from uncomfortable and debilitating symptoms.17 With a mechanism of action different from drugs used to treat the same condition, ranolazine is a promising anti-anginal therapy. It was originally approved by the FDA in 2006.15 Ranolazine is indicated for the treatment of chronic angina. It can be used alone or in conjunction with nitrates, beta-blockers, angiotensin receptor blockers, anti-platelet drugs, calcium channel blockers, lipid-lowering drugs, and ACE inhibitors.17 Ranolazine has also been used off-label for the treatment of certain arrhythmias, including ventricular tachycardia, however, this use is not strongly supported by scientific evidence.3 Ranolazine has also been studied for the treatment of acute coronary syndrome, microvascular coronary dysfunction, arrhythmia, and glycemic control, which are not yet approved indications.1,17 Ranolazine exerts both antianginal and ischemic effects independent from lowering heart rate or blood pressure.9,17 It blocks IKr, the rapid portion of the delayed rectifier potassium current, and prolongs the QTc interval in a dose-dependent fashion. The Ikr is important for cardiac repolarization.17 Ranolazine exerts its therapeutic effects without negative chronotropic, dromotropic, or inotropic actions neither at rest, nor during exercise.1 Myocardial ischemia exerts effects on adenosine triphosphate flux, leading to a decrease in the energy available for contraction and relaxation of the heart muscle. Electrolyte balance of sodium and potassium is necessary for maintaining normal cardiac contraction and relaxation. Disruption of adequate sodium and potassium electrolyte balance leads to excessively high concentrations of sodium and calcium, which likely interferes with oxygen supply to the heart muscle. This imbalance eventually leads to angina symptoms of chest pain or pressure, nausea, and dizziness, among others.11,18 The mechanism of action for ranolazine is not fully understood. At therapeutic concentrations, it can inhibit the cardiac late sodium
205 current (INa), which may affect the electrolyte balance in the myocardium, relieving angina symptoms. The clinical significance this inhibition in the treatment of angina symptoms is not yet confirmed.17 Ranolazine inhibits sodium and potassium ion channel currents.1 It has been shown to exert weak activity on L-type calcium channels making it a weak direct vasodilator and exerts minimal direct effects on atrioventricular nodal conduction.2 Some additional mechanisms have been elucidated. Ranolazine exerts antagonistic activity towards the alpha 1 and beta 1 adrenergic receptors and inhibition of fatty acid oxidation.1,12 The time to reach peak serum concentration is quite variable but has been observed to be in the range of 2-6 hours, with steady-state within 3 days.1 The FDA indicates a Tmax of 3-5 hours.17 The average steady-state Cmax is about 2600 ng/mL. Absorption of ranolazine is not significantly affected by food consumption.3 The bioavailability of ranolazine taken in the tablet form compared to that from a solution of ranolazine is about 76%.17 The mean apparent volume of distribution of ranolazine is reported to be 53.2 L16 and the average steady-state volume of distribution is estimated to range from 85 to 180 L.6 Approximately 62% of the administered dose of ranolazine is bound to plasma proteins.4,17 Ranolazine appears to have a higher binding affinity for alpha-1 acid glycoprotein.13,16 Ranolazine is rapidly heavily metabolized in the liver an gastrointestinal tract through the activity of the CYP3A4 enzyme with minor contributions from CYP2D6.1,2,17 More than 40 ranolazine metabolites have been found in plasma and more than 100 metabolites have been identified in the urine.4  Ranolazine and some of its metabolites are known to weakly inhibit CYP3A4. However, the activity of the metabolites of ranolazine has not been fully elucidated.16 Hover over products below to view reaction partners From the administered dose, about 3/4 of the dose is excreted renally, while 1/4 of the dose is excreted in the feces. An estimated 5% of an ingested dose is excreted as unchanged drug.1,17 The apparent terminal half-life of ranolazine is 7 hours.13,17 The reported clearance rate of orally administered ranolazine is of 45 L/h when administered at a dose of 500 mg twice daily.6 The clearance rate of ranolazine is dose-dependent and renal impairment can increase ranolazine serum concentration by 40-50%.4  The reported LD50 of oral ranolazine in the rat is 980 mg/kg.MSDS High oral doses of ranolazine have led to dizziness, nausea, and vomiting. These effects have been shown to be dose related. High intravenous doses can cause diplopia, confusion, paresthesia, in addition to syncope. In
Dapsone | DrugBank Online A sulfone active against a wide range of bacteria but mainly employed for its actions against mycobacterium leprae. Its mechanism of action is probably similar to that of the sulfonamides which involves inhibition of folic acid synthesis in susceptible organisms. It is also used with pyrimethamine in the treatment of malaria. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p157-8) For the treatment and management of leprosy and dermatitis herpetiformis. Dapsone is a sulfone with anti-inflammatory immunosuppressive properties as well as antibacterial and antibiotic properties. Dapsone is the principal drug in a multidrug regimen recommended by the World Health Organization for the treatment of leprosy. As an anti-infective agent, it is also used for treating malaria and, recently, for Pneumocystic carinii pneumonia in AIDS patients. Dapsone is absorbed rapidly and nearly completely from the gastrointestinal tract. Dapsone is distributed throughout total body water and is present in all tissues. However, it tends to be retained in skin and muscle and especially in the liver and kidney: traces of the drug are present in these organs up to 3 weeks after therapy cessation. Dapsone acts against bacteria and protozoa in the same way as sulphonamides, that is by inhibiting the synthesis of dihydrofolic acid through competition with para-amino-benzoate for the active site of dihydropteroate synthetase. The anti-inflammatory action of the drug is unrelated to its antibacterial action and is still not fully understood. Bioavailability is 70 to 80% following oral administration. 70 to 90% Hepatic, mostly CYP2E1-mediated. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Renal 28 hours (range 10-50 hours) Overdosage might be expected to produce nasal congestion, syncope, or hallucinations. Measures to support blood pressure should be taken if necessary. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Weijiard, J.and Messerly, J.P.; U.S. Patent 2,385,899; October 2,1945; assigned to Merck
Phenytoin | DrugBank Online Phenytoin is classified as a hydantoin derivative and despite its narrow therapeutic index, it is one of the most commonly used anticonvulsants.12,6,8 Since it's introduction about 80 years ago, phenytoin has not only been established as an effective anti-epileptic, but has also been investigated for several other indications such as bipolar disorder, retina protection, and wound healing.7,6 Clinicians are advised to initiate therapeutic drug monitoring in patients who require phenytoin since even small deviations from the recommended therapeutic range can lead to suboptimal treatment, or adverse effects.8,10 Both parenteral and oral formulations of phenytoin are available on the market.8 Phenytoin is indicated to treat grand mal seizures, complex partial seizures, and to prevent and treat seizures during or following neurosurgery.14 Injectable phenytoin and Fosphenytoin, which is the phosphate ester prodrug formulation of phenytoin2, are indicated to treat tonic-clonic status epilepticus, and for the prevention and treatment of seizures occurring during neurosurgery.15 Phenytoin is an anticonvulsant with a narrow therapeutic index.5 Although the recommended therapeutic range is cited to be between 10-20 mg/L, differences in albumin levels, genetics, comorbidities, and body composition can make achieving an ideal phenytoin dose challenging.5 For example, studies have confirmed that phenytoin metabolism is impacted by CYP2C9 genotype polymorphisms and possibly by CYP2C19 genotype polymorphisms (the latter has not been as extensively studied).5 It is worth nothing that although phenytoin is highly protein bound, only the fraction unbound is able to exert a pharmacological effect.17 Therefore, factors that reduce or increase the percentage of protein bound phenytoin (for example: concomitant administration of drugs that can cause displacement from protein binding sites) can have a marked impact on phenytoin therapy.4,17  Although phenytoin first appeared in the literature in 1946, it has taken decades for the mechanism of action to be more specifically elucidated.7 Although several scientists were convinced that phenytoin altered sodium permeability, it wasn’t until the 1980’s that this phenomenon was linked to voltage-gated sodium channels.7  Phenytoin is often described as a non-specific sodium channel blocker and targets almost all voltage-gated sodium channel subtypes.7 More specifically, phenytoin prevents seizures by inhibiting the positive feedback loop that results in neuronal propagation of high frequency action potentials.5,8,9 Given its narrow therapeutic index, therapeutic drug monitoring is recommended to help guide dosing.8,10
Doxycycline | DrugBank Online Doxycycline is a broad-spectrum antibiotic synthetically derived from oxytetracycline Label. This drug is a second-generation tetracycline, exhibiting lesser toxicity than first-generation tetracyclines 7. Doxycycline may be used to treat a wide range of bacterial infections, depending on the results of antibiotic susceptibility testing. Doxycycline is indicated for the treatment of various infections by gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, aerobes and anaerobes, as well other types of bacteria. A complete list of organisms is available in the FDA label and in the "indications" section of this drug entry Label. The following are some of the major infections that may be treated with doxycycline Label: Rocky mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsialpox, and tick fevers caused by Rickettsiae Respiratory tract infections caused by Mycoplasma pneumoniae Lymphogranuloma venereum caused by Chlamydia trachomatis Psittacosis (ornithosis) caused by Chlamydia psittaci Trachoma caused by Chlamydia trachomatis, although the infectious agent is not always eliminated as judged by immunofluorescence Inclusion conjunctivitis caused by Chlamydia trachomatis Uncomplicated urethral, endocervical or rectal infections in adults caused by Chlamydia trachomatis Nongonococcal urethritis caused by Ureaplasma urealyticum Relapsing fever due to Borrelia recurrentis A note regarding anti-microbial resistance It is important to note that doxycycline is not the drug of choice in the treatment of any type of staphylococcal infection.
Up to 44 percent of strains of Streptococcus pyogenes and 74 percent of Streptococcus faecalis have been found to be resistant to tetracyclines. Therefore, tetracyclines such as doxycycline should not be used to treat streptococcal infections unless the microorganism has been demonstrated to be susceptible Label. The tetracyclines, including doxycycline, are mainly bacteriostatic and are thought to exert antimicrobial effects by the inhibition of protein synthesis. Bacteriostatic antibiotics suppress the growth of bacteria, or keep them in the stationary phase of growth 4. The tetracyclines, including doxycycline, have a similar antimicrobial spectrum of activity against a variety of gram-positive and gram-negative microorganisms, treating numerous infectious diseases. Cross-resistance of these microorganisms to tetracyclines is a common occurrence Label. Doxycycline shows favorable intra-cellular penetration, with bacteriostatic activity on a wide range of bacteria 5. Doxycycline has antiparasitic effects 2, 3, 4. In addition to the above effects, this drug has demonstrated anti-inflammatory actions, which may help to manage inflammatory conditions such as rosacea 6.  In bacterial replication, an interaction that is important for translation initiation of proteins occurs at the 3′ end of the 16S rRNA, found on the ribosome on the 30S subunit 12, 11, 13. The 30S subunit is the smaller subunit of the ribosome of prokaryotes, including bacteria16.  Tetracyclines such as doxycycline are thought to inhibit translation by binding to the 16S rRNA portion of the ribosome 9, preventing binding of tRNA to the RNA-30S bacterial ribosomal subunit, which is necessary for the delivery of amino acids for protein synthesis. As a result of the above actions, the initiation of protein synthesis by polyribosome formation is blocked. This stops the replication of bacteria and produces a bacteriostatic effect 14. Tetracyclines, such as doxycycline, are readily absorbed and are bound to plasma proteins by varying degrees. Doxycycline is almost completely absorbed after oral administration. This drug is highly lipid soluble and has a low affinity for calcium binding Label. Absorption is not significantly affected by the concomitant ingestion of food or milk 14. Peak serum levels of approximately 2.6 mcg/ml are reached at 2 hours following a 200 mg tablet oral dose 14. Doxycycline diffuses readily into most body tissues, fluid and/or cavities and the volume of distribution has been measured as 0.7 L/kg 14. >90% Label, 15. Doxycycline is metabolized in the liver and gastrointestinal tract and concentrated in bile Label, 15.
Major metabolic pathways of doxycycline have not been identified, however, enzyme inducers have been found to decrease the half-life of doxycycline 15. Mainly the urine and feces as active and unchanged drug Label. Between 40% and 60% of an administered dose can be accounted for in the urine by 92 hours, and approximately 30% can be accounted for in the feces 15. 16.33 hr (± 4.53 sd) Label. The excretion of doxycycline by the kidney is about 40% over 72 hours in individuals with normal kidney function (creatinine clearance approximately 75 mL/min). This rate may fall as low as 1-5% over 72 hours in individuals with severe renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance below 10 mL/min). Some clinical studies have shown no major difference in serum half-life of doxycycline (range 18-22 hours) in patients with normal and severely impaired renal function. Hemodialysis does not affect serum half-life of doxycycline Label. There are various precautions to be undertaken while doxycyline is administered 14. A full list of adverse events is included in the "Adverse Effects" section of this drug entry. A note on tooth development and tetracycline use The use of tetracyclines, including doxycycline, during tooth development (i.e. the last half of pregnancy, throughout infancy, and in childhood up to 8 years of age) may lead to tooth enamel hypoplasia and yellow-gray discoloration of teeth. It is advisable not to administer doxycycline in this age group according to the FDA label, except for in cases of post-exposure cases of anthrax (including inhalational anthrax) Label. Other sources state that doxycycline should not be administered in children under 12 years 14. A note on Clostridium difficile
Clostridium difficile associated diarrhea (CDAD) and antibiotic associated pseudomembranous colitis may result from doxycycline use. Administering antibacterial agents changes the normal flora of the colon leading to an overgrowth of C. difficile. This bacteria produces toxins A and B, which contribute to the development of CDAD 14. in moderate to severe cases, therapy with a suitable oral antibacterial agent effective against Clostridium difficile should be considered. Fluids, electrolytes and protein replacement should be provided when warranted 14. A note on gastrointestinal irritation
Gastrointestinal irritation may also occur. Rarely, esophagitis and esophageal ulcers have been reported in patients receiving doxycycline. Most of these patients took medication immediately before going to bed. Administration of appropriate amounts of fluid with the tablets is recommended to reduce the risk of esophageal irritation and ulceration, and late evening ingestion of the dose should be avoided 14. To decrease the risk of gastric irritation, it is recommended that doxycycline is taken with food or milk. The absorption of doxycycline is not significantly influenced by simultaneous ingestion of food or milk 14. Pregnancy
Results of animal research indicate that tetracyclines cross the placenta, are found in fetal tissues and exert toxic effects on the developing fetus, manifested by retardation of skeletal development. The importance of this in humans is not known, however, doxycycline should not be used in pregnant women unless the benefit significantly outweighs the risk 14.  Carcinogenicity
Clotrimazole | DrugBank Online This drug is a broad spectrum antimycotic or antifungal agent. Clotrimazole's antimycotic properties were discovered in the late 1960s 2. Clotrimazole falls under the imidazole category of azole antifungals, possessing broad-spectrum antimycotic activity 2. It is available in various preparations, including creams, pessaries, and troche formulations (slowly dissolving tablets). As well as its antifungal activity, clotrimazole has become a drug of interest in treating several other diseases such as sickle cell disease, malaria and some cancers 2. The minimal side effect profile of this drug and its uncomplicated metabolic profile have led it to gain widespread acceptance for the treatment of mycotic outbreaks such as vaginal yeast infections as well as athlete's foot 3. Topical preparations Clotrimazole topical cream is indicated for the topical treatment of the following dermal infections 9, 12: Tinea pedis, tinea cruris, and tinea corporis due to Trichophyton rubrum, Trichophyton mentagrophytes, Epidermophyton floccosum Candidiasis due to Candida albicans Tinea versicolor due to Malassezia furfur Diaper rash infected by Candida albicans In some preparations, clotrimazole may be combined with betamethasone dipropionate, a corticosteroid 12.  Oral preparations The oral troche preparation is indicated for the local treatment of oropharyngeal candidiasis Label. It is also indicated as a prophylactic drug to reduce the incidence of oropharyngeal candidiasis in patients immunocompromised by conditions such as chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or steroid therapy utilized in the treatment of leukemia, solid tumors, or renal transplantation Label. Troche preparations are not indicated for the treatment of any systemic mycoses Label. Clotrimazole is a broad-spectrum antifungal agent that inhibits the growth of pathogenic yeasts by changing the permeability of cell membranes. The action of clotrimazole is fungistatic at concentrations of drug up to 20 mcg/mL and may be fungicidal in vitro against Candida albicans and other species of the genus Candida at higher concentrations Label. Unfortunately, resistance to clotrimazole, which was rare in the past, is now common in various patient populations 2.  Clotrimazole is generally considered to be a fungistatic, and not a fungicidal drug, although this contrast is not absolute, as clotrimazole shows fungicidal properties at higher concentrations 2. Clotrimazole acts primarily by damaging the permeability barrier in the cell membrane of fungi. Clotrimazole causes inhibition of ergosterol biosynthesis, an essential constituent of fungal cell membranes. If ergosterol synthesis is either completely or partially inhibited, the cell is no longer able to construct an intact and functional cell membrane 9,10. Because ergosterol directly promotes the growth of fungal cells in a hormone‐like fashion, rapid onset of the above events leads to dose-dependent inhibition of fungal growth 2. Though decreased ergosterol, due to the inhibition of lanosterol 14-demethylase (also known as CYP51) 2 is accepted to be primarily responsible for the antimycotic properties of clotrimazole, this drug also shows other pharmacological effects. These include the inhibition of sarcoplasmic reticulum Ca2+‐ATPase, depletion of intracellular calcium, and blocking of calcium‐dependent potassium channels and voltage‐dependent calcium channels 2. The action of clotrimazole on these targets accounts for other effects of this drug that are separate from its antimycotic activities 2. Because clotrimazole is generally not significantly absorbed, drug interactions are not a major issue with its use 2. The topical form is minimally absorbed in the serum and tissues 9. Clotrimazole is a lipophilic drug 4, and has been shown to be secreted in breastmilk in animal studies 9. There are limited data available regarding the volume of distribution following oral troche administration. 98% 7 Hepatic (metabolized to inactive metabolites) 8.  Mainly hepatic 8. Symptoms of overdose include erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria, burning, and general irritation of the skin, and cramps. As with all topical agents, skin sensitization may result 9. Oral LD50 (rat): 708 mg/kg; Intraperitoneal LD50 (rat): 445 mg/kg; Subcutaneous LDLO (rat): 10 g/kg; Oral LD50 (mouse): 761 mg/kg; Subcutaneous LDLO (mouse): 10 g/kg; Intraperitoneal LD50 (mouse): 108 mg/kg;13 Overdose This drug poses no risk of acute intoxication, as it is unlikely to occur following a single vaginal or dermal application of an overdose (application over a large area under conditions favorable to absorption) or accidental oral ingestion. There is no specific antidote 10. Effects on Fertility No human studies of the effects of clotrimazole on fertility have been conducted; however, animal studies have not shown any effects on the drug on fertility 9. Use in Pregnancy There are limited data regarding the use of clotrimazole in pregnant women. Animal studies do not show direct or indirect harmful effects on reproduction. Although the topical application of clotrimazole may result in very low serum and tissue levels, the use of clotrimazole topical cream by pregnant women is not recommended unless it is advised by the prescribing physician. Clotrimazole topical cream should not be used in the first trimester of pregnancy unless it is considered by the physician to be essential to patient well-being 9. Use in Breastfeeding Available pharmacodynamic/toxicological studies in animals have shown excretion of clotrimazole/metabolites in breastmilk. Clotrimazole should not be administered during breastfeeding. Although the topical application of clotrimazole has resulted in very low serum and tissue levels, the use of clotrimazole topical cream by lactating women is not recommended unless it recommended by the prescribing physician 9. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Buechel, K.H., et al; South African Patent 69/0039; January 3, 1969; assigned to Farben- Buechel, K.H., Regel, E. and Plempel, M.; US. Patent 3,660,577; May 2,1972; and U.S. fabriken Bayer AG, Germany.
Ropinirole | DrugBank Online Ropinirole, also known as ReQuip, is a non-ergoline dopamine agonist used in Parkinson's disease and restless legs syndrome Label, 3. It is manufactured by GlaxoSmithKline Pharmaceuticals. Ropinirole was initially approved in 1997 by the FDA Label for the management of Parkinson's disease. In 2005, it was the first drug approved in the US for the management of primary moderate to severe restless legs syndrome 3. In 2008, the extended-release capsules of ropinirole were approved, allowing for less frequent dosing, therefore increased compliance, and offering a similar side effect profile and efficacy to previous formulations of ropinirole 4. For the treatment of the signs and symptoms of Parkinson's disease and for the treatment of primary moderate-severe restless legs syndrome Label. Effects on Parkinson's and restless leg syndrome This drug promotes the relief or improvement of symptoms of Parkinson's or restless leg syndrome by stimulatory actions on dopamine receptors, which regulate movement. Effects on blood pressure Clinical experience with dopamine agonists, including ropinirole, suggests an association with impaired abilities in regulating blood pressure with resulting orthostatic hypotension, especially with patients undergoing dose escalation. In some patients in clinical studies, blood pressure changes were associated with orthostatic symptoms, bradycardia, and, in one case in a healthy volunteer, transient sinus arrest accompanied by syncope Label. The mechanism of orthostatic hypotension caused by ropinirole is assumed to be due to a D2-mediated blunting of noradrenergic response to a standing position, followed by a decrease in peripheral vascular resistance. Nausea is also a frequent symptom which accompanies orthostatic signs and symptoms Label. Effects on prolactin At oral doses as low as 0.2 mg, ropinirole suppressed serum prolactin concentrations in healthy male volunteers.
Ropinirole had no dose-related effect on ECG wave form and rhythm in young, healthy, male volunteers in the range of 0.01 to 2.5 mg Label. Effects on QT interval Ropinirole had no dose- or exposure-related effect on average QT intervals in healthy male and female volunteers at doses up to 4 mg/day. The effect of ropinirole on QTc intervals at higher exposures reached either due to drug interactions, hepatic dysfunction, or at higher doses has not been adequately evaluated Label.  Ropinirole is a non-ergoline dopamine agonist. Ropinirole has the highest affinity at the D3 receptors, which are concentrated in the limbic areas of the brain and may be responsible for some of the neuropsychiatric effects 4. The exact mechanism of action of ropinirole as a treatment for Parkinson’s disease is unknown, however, it is believed to be related to its ability to selectively stimulate dopamine D2 receptors within the caudate-putamen system in the brain. This system affects body movement. Negligible affinity is seen for ropinirole at α2 adrenoreceptors in the periphery and 5HT-1 receptor. Ropinirole has no affinity at the D1-like receptors, benzodiazepine or GABA receptors 4. The precise mechanism of action of ropinirole as a treatment for Restless Legs Syndrome is unknown, however, it is believed to be related to its ability to stimulate dopamine receptors Label. Ropinirole is rapidly absorbed after oral administration, reaching peak concentration in approximately 1 to 2 hours Label, 5. Absolute bioavailability was 45% to 55%, suggesting approximately 50% hepatic first-pass effect Label. The bioavailability of ropinirole prolonged release compared to the immediate release tablets is about 100% 2. Ingestion of food does not affect the absorption of ropinirole, although its Tmax was increased by 2.5 hours and its Cmax was reduced by approximately 25% when the drug is taken with a high-fat meal Label. Ropinirole is found to be widely distributed throughout the body, with an apparent volume of distribution of 7.5 L/kg Label. 40% bound to plasma proteins with a blood-to-plasma ratio of 1:1 Label. Ropinirole is heavily metabolized by the liver. The most important metabolic pathways are N­ despropylation and hydroxylation to form the N-despropyl metabolite and hydroxy metabolites Label, both of which are inactive 4. The N-despropyl metabolite is then converted to carbamyl glucuronide, carboxylic acid, and N-despropyl hydroxy metabolites. Following this process, the hydroxy metabolite of ropinirole is glucuronidated at a rapid rate Label. In vitro studies show that the major cytochrome P450 enzyme involved in the metabolism of ropinirole is CYP1A2 Label, 5.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners The majority of the absorbed dose is cleared by the liver 4. In clinical trials, more than 88% of a radiolabeled dose was recovered in urine Label.
Less than 10% of the administered dose is excreted as unchanged drug in urine. N-despropyl ropinirole is the major metabolite found in the urine (40%), followed by the carboxylic acid metabolite (10%), and the glucuronide of the hydroxy metabolite (10%) Label. Approximately 6 hours Label, 5. The clearance of ropinirole after oral administration is 47 L/h Label. Overdose Symptoms of overdose include agitation, chest pain, confusion, drowsiness, facial muscle movements, grogginess, increased jerkiness of movement, symptoms of low blood pressure (dizziness, light-headedness)upon standing, nausea, and vomiting Label. Carcinogenicity Two-year carcinogenicity studies of ropinirole were performed on animal models at oral doses of 5, 15, and 50 mg/kg/day and in rats at oral doses of 1.5, 15, and 50 mg/kg/day.
Argatroban | DrugBank Online Argatroban is a direct, selective thrombin inhibitor. The American College of Cardiologists (ACC) recommend using bivalirudin or argatroban in patients who have had, or at risk for, heparin induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) and are undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. Argatroban is a non-heparin anticoagulant shown to both normalize platelet count in patients with HIT and prevent the formation of thrombi. Parental anticoagulants must be stopped and a baseline activated partial thromboplastin time must be obtained prior to administering argatroban. Argatroban is indicated for prevention and treatment of thrombosis caused by heparin-induced thrombocytopenia (HIT). It is also indicated for use in patients with, or at risk for, HIT who are undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention. Argatroban is a synthetic direct thrombin inhibitor derived from L-arginine indicated as an anticoagulant for prophylaxis or treatment of thrombosis in patients with heparin-induced thrombocytopenia. Argatroban is a direct thrombin inhibitor that reversibly binds to the thrombin active site. Argatroban does not require the co-factor antithrombin III for antithrombotic activity. Argatroban exerts its anticoagulant effects by inhibiting thrombin-catalyzed or -induced reactions, including fibrin formation; activation of coagulation factors V, VIII, and XIII; protein C; and platelet aggregation. Argatroban is highly selective for thrombin with an inhibitory constant (Ki) of 0.04 µM. At therapeutic concentrations, Argatroban has little or no effect on related serine proteases (trypsin, factor Xa, plasmin, and kallikrein).
Venlafaxine | DrugBank Online Venlafaxine (Effexor) is an antidepressant within the serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) class of medications. It exerts its effects primarily by blocking the transporters involved in the reuptake of the neurotransmitters serotonin and norepinephrine, therefore leaving more active neurotransmitter in the synapse. Venlafaxine is officially approved for use in the management of major depressive disorder (MDD), generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), social anxiety disorder, and panic disorder. As of 2014, Canadian clinical practice guidelines recommend venlafaxine as a first-line option for treatment of generalized anxiety, social anxiety, panic disorder, major depressive disorder (MDD), and consider it a second-line option for management of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) 9,12. Venlafaxine is also used off-label for prophylaxis of migraine headaches 10, for reduction of vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause 13, and for management of neuropathic pain (although there is only minimal evidence of efficacy for this condition) 11. Venlafaxine is indicated in the management of major depressive disorder (MDD), generalized anxiety disorder (GAD), social anxiety disorder (social phobia), and panic disorder with or without agoraphobia. Venlafaxine is also used off-label for prophylaxis of migraine headaches 10, for reduction of vasomotor symptoms associated with menopause 13, and for management of neuropathic pain (although there is only minimal evidence of efficacy for this condition) 11. It is also considered a second-line option for management of obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) 9,12.  The mechanism of venlafaxine's (and its metabolite, O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV)) antidepressant effect is believed to be due to their potentiation of neurotransmitter activity in the central nervous system through the inhibition of the reuptake of serotonin and norepinephrine from within the synapse. Venlafaxine has also been shown to weakly inhibit dopamine reuptake. Neither venlafaxine nor ODV bind to muscarinic, histaminergic, or alpha-1 adrenergic receptorsLabel; pharmacologic activity at these receptors is hypothesized to be associated with the various anticholinergic, sedative, and cardiovascular effects seen with other psychotropic drugs. Hyponatremia has also been shown to occur as a result of treatment with SNRIs, and is associated with the development of the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone secretion (SIADH) Label,14. Venlafaxine also demonstrates a clinically significant and dose-related effect on blood pressure, likely due to its potentiation of norepinephrine Label,15. The exact mechanism of action of venlafaxine is unknown, but appears to be associated with the potentiation of neurotransmitter activity in the CNS. Venlafaxine and its active metabolite, O-desmethylvenlafaxine (ODV), inhibit the reuptake of both serotonin and norepinephrine with a potency greater for the 5-HT than for the NE reuptake process 16. Both venlafaxine and the ODV metabolite have weak inhibitory effects on the reuptake of dopamine but, unlike the tricyclics and similar to SSRIs, they are not active at histaminergic, muscarinic, or alpha(1)-adrenergic receptors. Venlafaxine is well absorbed, with at least 92% of a single dose absorbed on the basis of mass balance studies Label. Food does not affect the absorption of venlafaxine or its subsequent metabolism into ODV. Bioavailability is 45% following oral administration.
Time to steady state = 3 days.  The degree of binding of venlafaxine to human plasma is 27% ± 2% at concentrations ranging from 2.5 to 2215 ng/mL. The degree of ODV binding to human plasma is 30% ± 12% at concentrations ranging from 100 to 500 ng/mL. Protein-binding-induced drug interactions with venlafaxine are not expected. Undergoes extensive first pass metabolism in the liver to its major, active metabolite, O-desmethylvenlafaxine ODV, and two minor, less active metabolites, N-desmethylvenlafaxine and N,O-didesmethylvenlafaxine. Formation of ODV is catalyzed by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 2D6, whereas N-demethylation is catalyzed by CYP3A4, 2C19 and 2C9. ODV possesses antidepressant activity that is comparable to that of venlfaxine.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Renal elimination of venlafaxine and its metabolites is the primary route of excretion. Approximately 87% of a venlafaxine dose is recovered in the urine within 48 hours as either unchanged venlafaxine (5%), unconjugated ODV (29%), conjugated ODV (26%), or other minor inactive metabolites (27%).  5 hours Steady state plasma clearance, venlafaxine = 1.3 ± 0.6 L/h/kg;
Amcinonide | DrugBank Online Amcinonide is a corticosteroid. For the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. Amcinonide is a topical corticosteroid. The topical corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used as anti-inflammatory and antipruritic agents. Amcinonide reduces or inhibits the actions of chemicals in the body that cause inflammation, redness, and swelling. The mechanism of anti-inflammatory activity of the topical corticosteroids is unclear. Various laboratory methods, including vasoconstrictor assays, are used to compare and predict potencies and/or clinical efficacies of the topical corticosteroids. There is some evidence to suggest that a recognizable correlation exists between vasoconstrictor potency and therapeutic efficacy in man. When in an ointment form, amcinonide also helps the skin maintain moisture. The mechanism of the anti-inflammatory activity of the topical steroids, in general, is unclear. However, corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins, collectively called lipocortins. It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor, arachidonic acid. Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2. Amcinonide has affinity for the glucocorticoid receptor. It has weak affinity for the progesterone receptor, and virtually no affinity for the mineralocorticoid, estrogen, or androgen receptors. Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin. Inflammation and/or other disease processes in the skin increase percutaneous absorption. Once absorbed through the skin, topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids. Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys. Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys.
Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile. Results from acute toxicity studies do not indicate that any risk of acute intoxication is to be expected following a single dermal application of an overdose (application over a large area under conditions favorable to absorption) or inadvertent oral ingestion. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Schultz, W., Sieger, G.M. and Krieger, C.: British Patent 1,442,925; July 14,1976; assigned to
Chlorambucil | DrugBank Online A nitrogen mustard alkylating agent used as antineoplastic agent for the treatment of various malignant and nonmalignant diseases. Although it is less toxic than most other nitrogen mustards, it has been listed as a known carcinogen in the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985). (Merck Index, 11th ed) For treatment of chronic lymphatic (lymphocytic) leukemia, childhood minimal-change nephrotic syndrome, and malignant lymphomas including lymphosarcoma, giant follicular lymphoma, Hodgkin's disease, non-Hodgkin's lymphomas, and Waldenström’s Macroglobulinemia. Chlorambucil is an antineoplastic in the class of alkylating agents that is used to treat various forms of cancer. Alkylating agents are so named because of their ability to add alkyl groups to many electronegative groups under conditions present in cells. They stop tumor growth by cross-linking guanine bases in DNA double-helix strands - directly attacking DNA. This makes the strands unable to uncoil and separate. As this is necessary in DNA replication, the cells can no longer divide. In addition, these drugs add methyl or other alkyl groups onto molecules where they do not belong which in turn inhibits their correct utilization by base pairing and causes a miscoding of DNA. Alkylating agents are cell cycle-nonspecific. Alkylating agents work by three different mechanisms all of which achieve the same end result - disruption of DNA function and cell death. Alkylating agents work by three different mechanisms: 1) attachment of alkyl groups to DNA bases, resulting in the DNA being fragmented by repair enzymes in their attempts to replace the alkylated bases, preventing DNA synthesis and RNA transcription from the affected DNA, 2) DNA damage via the formation of cross-links (bonds between atoms in the DNA) which prevents DNA from being separated for synthesis or transcription, and 3) the induction of mispairing of the nucleotides leading to mutations. 99% Chlorambucil is extensively metabolized in the liver primarily to phenylacetic acid mustard. The pharmacokinetic data suggests that oral chlorambucil undergoes rapid gastrointestinal absorption and plasma clearance and that it is almost completely metabolized, having extremely low urinary excretion. 1.5 hours Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Phillips, A. P. and Mentha, J.W.; U.S.Patent 3,046,301; July 24, 1962; assigned to Burroughs
Bupivacaine | DrugBank Online Bupivacaine is a widely used local anesthetic agent. For the production of local or regional anesthesia or analgesia for surgery, for oral surgery procedures, for diagnostic and therapeutic procedures, and for obstetrical procedures. Bupivacaine is a widely used local anesthetic agent. Bupivacaine is often administered by spinal injection prior to total hip arthroplasty. It is also commonly injected into surgical wound sites to reduce pain for up to 20 hours after surgery. In comparison to other local anesthetics it has a long duration of action. It is also the most toxic to the heart when administered in large doses. This problem has led to the use of other long-acting local anaesthetics:ropivacaine and levobupivacaine. Levobupivacaine is a derivative, specifically an enantiomer, of bupivacaine. Systemic absorption of local anesthetics produces effects on the cardiovascular and central nervous systems. At blood concentrations achieved with therapeutic doses, changes in cardiac conduction, excitability, refractoriness, contractility, and peripheral vascular resistance are minimal. However, toxic blood concentrations depress cardiac conduction and excitability, which may lead to atrioventricular block, ventricular arrhythmias and to cardiac arrest, sometimes resulting in fatalities. In addition, myocardial contractility is depressed and peripheral vasodilation occurs, leading to decreased cardiac output and arterial blood pressure. Following systemic absorption, local anesthetics can produce central nervous system stimulation, depression or both. Local anesthetics such as bupivacaine block the generation and the conduction of nerve impulses, presumably by increasing the threshold for electrical excitation in the nerve, by slowing the propagation of the nerve impulse, and by reducing the rate of rise of the action potential. Bupivacaine prevents depolarization by bindng to the intracellular portion of sodium channels and blocking sodium ion influx into neurons. In general, the progression of anesthesia is related to the diameter, myelination and conduction velocity of affected nerve fibers. Clinically, the order of loss of nerve function is as follows: (1) pain, (2) temperature, (3) touch, (4) proprioception, and (5) skeletal muscle tone. The analgesic effects of Bupivicaine are thought to potentially be due to its binding to the prostaglandin E2 receptors, subtype EP1 (PGE2EP1), which inhibits the production of prostaglandins, thereby reducing fever, inflammation, and hyperalgesia. Systemic absorption of local anesthetics is dose- and concentration-dependendent on the total drug administered. Other factors that affect the rate of systemic absorption include the route of administration, blood flow at the administration site, and the presence or absence of epinephrine in the anesthetic solution. 95% Amide-type local anesthetics such as bupivacaine are metabolized primarily in the liver via conjugation with glucuronic acid. The major metabolite of bupivacaine is 2,6-pipecoloxylidine, which is mainly catalyzed via cytochrome P450 3A4. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Only 6% of bupivacaine is excreted unchanged in the urine. 2.7 hours in adults and 8.1 hours in neonates The mean seizure dosage of bupivacaine in rhesus monkeys was found to be 4.4 mg/kg with mean arterial plasma concentration of 4.5 mcg/mL. The intravenous and subcutaneous LD 50 in mice is 6 to 8 mg/kg and 38 to 54 mg/kg respectively. Recent clinical data from patients experiencing local anesthetic induced convulsions demonstrated rapid development of hypoxia, hypercarbia, and acidosis with bupivacaine within a minute of the onset of convulsions. These observations suggest that oxygen consumption and carbon dioxide production are greatly increased during local anesthetic convulsions and emphasize the importance of immediate and effective ventilation with oxygen which may avoid cardiac arrest. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Thuresson, B. and Egner, B.P.H.; U.S. Patent 2,792,399; May 14, 1957; assigned to AB Bofors, Sweden.
Thuresson, B. and Pettersson, B.G.; US. Patent 2,955.1 11; October 4,1960; assigned to AB
Chlorthalidone | DrugBank Online Chlorthalidone is a thiazide-like diuretic used for the treatment of hypertension and for management of edema caused by conditions such as heart failure or renal impairment. Chlorthalidone improves blood pressure and swelling by preventing water absorption from the kidneys through inhibition of the Na+/Cl− symporter in the distal convoluted tubule cells in the kidney. The exact mechanism of chlorthalidone's anti-hypertensive effect is under debate, however, it is thought that increased diuresis results in decreased plasma and extracellular fluid volume, decreased cardiac output and therefore overall reduction in blood pressure.5 Chlorthalidone is considered first-line therapy for management of uncomplicated hypertension as there is strong evidence from meta-analyses that thiazide diuretics such as chlorthalidone reduce the risk of stroke, myocardial infarction, heart failure, and cardiovascular all-cause mortality in patients with hypertension.1 In particular, the ALLHAT trial confirmed the role of thiazide diuretics as first-line therapy and demonstrated that chlorthalidone had a statistically significant lower incidence of stroke and heart failure when compared to Lisinopril, Amlodipine, or Doxazosin.2,3 Further studies have indicated that low-dose thiazides are as good as, and in some secondary endpoints, better than β-blockers, ACE inhibitors, Calcium Channel Blockers or ARBs. Chlorthalidone has been shown to have a number of pleiotropic effects that differentiate it from other diuretics such as Hydrochlorothiazide. In addition to its antihypertensive effects, chlorthalidone has also been shown to decrease platelet aggregation and vascular permeability, as well as promote angiogenesis in vitro, which is thought to be partly the result of reductions in carbonic anhydrase–dependent pathways. These pathways may play a role in chlorthalidone's cardiovascular risk reduction effects.7 Chlorthalidone is indicated in the management of hypertension either as the sole therapeutic agent or to enhance the effect of other antihypertensive drugs in the more severe forms of hypertension. Chlorthalidone is indicated as adjunctive therapy in edema associated with congestive heart failure, hepatic cirrhosis, and corticosteroid and estrogen therapy. Chlorthalidone has also been found useful in edema due to various forms of renal dysfunction, such as nephrotic syndrome, acute glomerulonephritis, and chronic renal failure. Chlorthalidone prevents reabsorption of sodium and chloride through inhibition of the Na+/Cl- symporter in the cortical diluting segment of the ascending limb of the loop of Henle.4 Reduction of sodium reabsorption subsequently reduces extracellular fluid and plasma volume via an osmotic, sodium-driven diuresis. By increasing the delivery of sodium to the distal renal tubule, Chlorthalidone indirectly increases potassium excretion via the sodium-potassium exchange mechanism. The exact mechanism of chlorthalidone's anti-hypertensive effect is under debate, however, it is thought that increased diuresis results in decreased plasma and extracellular fluid volume which therefore requires decreased cardiac output and overall lowers blood pressure.5 Chlorthalidone has also been shown to decrease platelet aggregation and vascular permeability, as well as promote angiogenesis in vitro, which is thought to be partly the result of reductions in carbonic anhydrase–dependent pathways. These pathways may play a role in chlorthalidone's cardiovascular risk reduction effects.7 Chlorthalidone has been shown to rapidly concentrate within erythrocytes and subsequently equilibrate via a slow diffusion back into the serum compartment, resulting in a large volume of distribution.6 Approximately 75 percent of the drug is bound to plasma proteins, 58 percent of the drug being bound to albumin.Label This is caused by an increased affinity of the drug to erythrocyte carbonic anhydrase.  Liver Approximately 50% of the administered dose is excreted unmetabolized through the kidney, and excretion is characterized by biphasic elimination with a rapid phase followed by a slow secretory phase.6 40-50 hoursLabel,6 Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Graf, W., Schmid, E. and Stoll, W.G.; US Patent 3,055,904; September 25,1962; assigned
Valproic acid | DrugBank Online Valproic acid, or valproate, is an fatty acid derivative and anticonvulsant originally synthesized in 1881 by Beverly S. Burton.26 It enjoyed use as a popular organic solvent in industry and pharmaceutical manufacturing for nearly a century. In 1963, a serendipitous discovery was made by George Carraz during his investigations into the anticonvulsant effects of khelline when he found that all of his samples, dissolved in valproic acid, exerted a similar degree of anticonvulsive activity. It first received approval on February 28, 1978 from the FDA under the trade name Depakene.29 Since then, it has been investigated for neuroprotective, anti-manic, and anti-migraine effects. It is currently a compound of interest in the field of oncology for its anti-proliferative effects and is the subject of many clinical trials in a variety of cancer types. Indicated for:Label  1) Use as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy in the management of complex partial seizures and simple or complex absence seizures.  2) Adjunctive therapy in the management of multiple seizure types that include absence seizures.  3) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches. 4) Acute management of mania associated with bipolar disorder. Off-label uses include: 1) Maintenance therapy for bipolar disorder.7 2) Treatment for acute bipolar depression.8,9,10 3) Emergency treatment of status epilepticus.11 Valproate has been shown to reduce the incidence of complex partial seizures and migraine headaches.Label,5 It also improves symptom control in bipolar mania.23 Although the exact mechanisms responsible are unknown, it is thought that valproate produces increased cortical inhibition to contribute to control of neural synchrony. It is also thought that valproate exerts a neuroprotective effect preventing damage and neural degeneration in epilepsy, migraines, and bipolar disorder. Valproate is hepatotoxic and teratogenic. The reasons for this are unclear but have been attributed to the genomic effects of the drug.1 A small proof-of concept study found that valproate increases clearance of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) when combined with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) by reactivating the virus to allow clearance, however, a larger multicentre trial failed to show a significant effect on HIV reservoirs when added to HAART.2,6 The FDA labeling contains a warning regarding HIV reactivation during valproate use.Label. The exact mechanisms by which valproate exerts it's effects on epilepsy, migraine headaches, and bipolar disorder are unknown however several pathways exist which may contribute to the drug's action. Valproate is known to inhibit succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase.12 This inhibition results in an increase in succinic semialdehyde which acts as an inhibitor of GABA transaminase ultimately reducing GABA metabolism and increasing GABAergic neurotransmission. As GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter, this increase results in increased inhibitory activity.1 A possible secondary contributor to cortical inhibition is a direct suppression of voltage gated sodium channel activity and indirect suppression through effects on GABA. It has also been suggested that valproate impacts the extracellular signal-related kinase pathway (ERK).1 These effects appear to be dependent on mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK) and result in the phosphorylation of ERK1/2. This activation increases expression of several downstream targets including ELK-1 with subsequent increases in c-fos, growth cone-associated protein-43 which contributes to neural plasticity, B-cell lymphoma/leukaemia-2 which is an anti-apoptotic protein, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) which is also involved in neural plasticity and growth. Increased neurogenesis and neurite growth due to valproate are attributed to the effects of this pathway. An additional downstream effect of increased BDNF expression appears to be an increase in GABAA receptors which contribute further to increased GABAergic activity.13 Valproate exerts a non-competitive indirect inhibitory effect on myo-inosital-1-phophate synthetase.14 This results in reduced de novo synthesis of inositol monophosphatase and subsequent inositol depletion. It is unknown how this contributed to valproate's effects on bipolar disorder but [lithium] is known to exert a similar inositol-depleting effect.15 Valproate exposure also appears to produce down-regulation of protein kinase C proteins (PKC)-α and -ε which are potentially related to bipolar disorder as PKC is unregulated in the frontal cortex of bipolar patients. This is further supported by a similar reduction in PKC with lithium.16 The inhibition of the PKC pathway may also be a contributor to migraine prophylaxis.17 Myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate, a PKC substrate, is also downregulated by valproate and may contribute to changes in synaptic remodeling through effects on the cytoskeleton.18 Valproate also appears to impact fatty acid metabolism.1 Less incorporation of fatty acid substrates in sterols and glycerolipids is thought to impact membrane fluidity and result in increased action potential threshold potentially contributing to valproate's antiepileptic action.19 Valproate has been found to be a non-competitive direct inhibitor of brain microsomal long-chain fatty acyl-CoA synthetase.20 Inhibition of this enzyme decreases available arichidonyl-CoA, a substrate in the production of inflammatory prostaglandins. It is thought that this may be a mechanism behind valproate's efficacy in migraine prophylaxis as migraines are routinely treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs which also inhibit prostaglandin production. Finally, valproate acts as a direct histone deactylase (HDAC) inhibitor.22 Hyperacetylation of lysine residues on histones promoted DNA relaxation and allows for increased gene transcription. The scope of valproate's genomic effects is wide with 461 genes being up or down-regulated.21 The relation of these genomic effects to therapeutic value is not fully characterized however H3 and H4 hyperacetylation correlates with improvement of symptoms in bipolar patients.23 Histone hyperacetylation at the BDNF gene, increasing BDNF expression, post-seizure is known to occur and is thought to be a neuroprotective mechanism which valproate may strengthen or prolong.24 H3 hyperacetylation is associated with a reduction in glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, a pro-apoptotic enzyme, contributing further to valproate's neuroprotective effects.25 The intravenous and oral forms of valproic acid are expected to produce the same AUC, Cmax, and Cmin at steady-state.Label The oral delayed-release tablet formulation has a Tmax of 4 hours. Differences in absorption rate are expected from other formulations but are not considered to be clinically important in the context of chronic therapy beyond impacting frequency of dosing. Differences in absorption may create earlier Tmax or higher Cmax values on initiation of therapy and may be affected differently by meals.30 The extended release tablet formulation had Tmax increase from 4 hours to 8 hours when taken with food. In comparison, the sprinkle capsule formulation had Tmax increase from 3.3 hours to 4.8 hours. Bioavailability is reported to be approximately 90% with all oral formulations with enteric-coated forms possibly reaching 100%.27 11 L/1.73m2.Label Protein binding is linear at low concentrations with a free fraction of approximately 10% at 40 mcg/mL but becomes non-linear at higher concentrations with a free fraction of 18.5% at 135 mcg/mL.Label This may be due to binding at separate high and low-affinity sites on albumin proteins.27 Binding is expected to decrease in the elderly and patients with hepatic dysfunction. Most drug is metabolized to glucuronide conjugates (30-50%) of the parent drug or of metabolites.Label,27 Another large portion is metabolized through mitochondrial β-oxidation (40%). The remainder of metabolism (15-20%) occurs through oxidation, hydroxylation, and dehydrogenation at the ω, ω1, and ω2 positions resulting in the formation of hydroxyls, ketones, carboxyls, a lactone metabolite, double bonds, and combinations.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Most drug is eliminated through hepatic metabolism, about 30-50%.Label The other major contributing pathway is mitochondrial β-oxidation, about 40%. Other oxidative pathways make up an additional 15-20%. Less than 3% is excreted unchanged in the urine. 13-19 hours.Label The half-life in neonates ranges from 10-67 hours while the half-life in pediatric patients under 2 months of age ranges from 7-13 hours. 0.56 L/hr/m2Label Pediatric patients between 3 months and 10 years of age have 50% higher clearances by weight. Pediatric patients 10 years of age or older approximate adult values.Label LD50 Values Oral, mouse: 1098 mg/kg Oral, rat: 670 mg/kg Overdose Symptoms of overdose include somnolence, heart block, deep coma, and hypernatremia. Fatalities have been reported, however patients have recovered from valproate serum concentrations as high as 2120 mcg/mL. The unbound fraction may be removed by hemodialysis. Naloxone has been demonstrated to reverse the CNS depressant effects of overdose but may also reverse the anti-epileptic effects.Label Reproductive Toxicity Valproate use in pregnancy is known to increase the risk of neural tube defects and other structural abnormalities.Label The risk of spina bifida increases from 0.06-0.07% in the normal population to 1-2% in valproate users. The North American Antiepileptic Drug (NAAED)
Pregnancy Registry reports a major malformation rate of 9-11%, 5 times the baseline rate. These malformations include neural tube defects, cardiovascular malformations, craniofacial defects (e.g., oral clefts, craniosynostosis), hypospadias, limb malformations (e.g., clubfoot, polydactyly), and other malformations of varying severity involving other body systems. Other antiepileptic drugs, lamotrigine, carbemazepine, and phenytoin, have been found to reduce IQ in children exposed in utero. Valproate was also studied however the results did not achieve statistical significance (97 IQ (CI: 94-101)). Observational studies report an absolute risk increase of 2.9% (relative risk 2.9 times baseline) of autism spectrum disorder in children exposed to valproate in utero. There have been case reports of fatal hepatic failure in children of mothers who used valproate during pregnancy. There have been reports of male infertility when taking valproate.Label Lactation Valproate is excreted in human milk.Label Data in the published literature describe the presence of valproate in human milk (range: 0.4 mcg/mL to 3.9 mcg/mL), corresponding to 1% to 10% of maternal serum levels. Valproate serum concentrations collected from breastfed infants aged 3 days postnatal to 12 weeks following delivery ranged from 0.7 mcg/mL to 4 mcg/mL, which were 1% to 6% of maternal serum valproate levels. A published study in children up to six years of age did not report adverse developmental or cognitive effects following exposure to valproate
Acetaminophen | DrugBank Online Acetaminophen (paracetamol), also commonly known as Tylenol, is the most commonly taken analgesic worldwide and is recommended as first-line therapy in pain conditions by the World Health Organization (WHO).10 It is also used for its antipyretic effects, helping to reduce fever.23 This drug was initially approved by the U.S. FDA in 1951 and is available in a variety of forms including syrup form, regular tablets, effervescent tablets, injection, suppository, and other forms.15,16,23,Label Acetaminophen is often found combined with other drugs in more than 600 over the counter (OTC) allergy medications, cold medications, sleep medications, pain relievers, and other products.19 Confusion about dosing of this drug may be caused by the availability of different formulas, strengths, and dosage instructions for children of different ages.19 Due to the possibility of fatal overdose and liver failure associated with the incorrect use of acetaminophen, it is important to follow current and available national and manufacturer dosing guidelines while this drug is taken or prescribed.20,21,Label In general, acetaminophen is used for the treatment of mild to moderate pain and reduction of fever.23 It is available over the counter in various forms, the most common being oral forms. Acetaminophen injection is indicated for the management of mild to moderate pain, the management of moderate to severe pain with adjunctive opioid analgesics, and the reduction of fever.Label Because of its low risk of causing allergic reactions, this drug can be administered in patients who are intolerant to salicylates and those with allergic tendencies, including bronchial asthmatics.23 Specific dosing guidelines should be followed when administering acetaminophen to children.18 Animal and clinical studies have determined that acetaminophen has both antipyretic and analgesic effects. This drug has been shown to lack anti-inflammatory effects. As opposed to the salicylate drug class, acetaminophen does not disrupt tubular secretion of uric acid and does not affect acid-base balance if taken at the recommended doses.23 Acetaminophen does not disrupt hemostasis and does not have inhibitory activities against platelet aggregation.Label,23 Allergic reactions are rare occurrences following acetaminophen use.23  According to its FDA labeling, acetaminophen's exact mechanism of action has not been fully establishedLabel - despite this, it is often categorized alongside NSAIDs (nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) due to its ability to inhibit the cyclooxygenase (COX) pathways.14 It is thought to exert central actions which ultimately lead to the alleviation of pain symptoms.14 One theory is that acetaminophen increases the pain threshold by inhibiting two isoforms of cyclooxygenase, COX-1 and COX-2, which are involved in prostaglandin (PG) synthesis. Prostaglandins are responsible for eliciting pain sensations.13 Acetaminophen does not inhibit cyclooxygenase in peripheral tissues and, therefore, has no peripheral anti-inflammatory effects. Though acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin) is an irreversible inhibitor of COX and directly blocks the active site of this enzyme, studies have shown that acetaminophen (paracetamol) blocks COX indirectly.24 Studies also suggest that acetaminophen selectively blocks a variant type of the COX enzyme that is unique from the known variants COX-1 and COX-2.6 This enzyme has been referred to as COX-3. The antipyretic actions of acetaminophen are likely attributed to direct action on heat-regulating centers in the brain, resulting in peripheral vasodilation, sweating, and loss of body heat.24 The exact mechanism of action of this drug is not fully understood at this time, but future research may contribute to deeper knowledge.24  Acetaminophen has 88% oral bioavailability and reaches its highest plasma concentration 90 minutes after ingestion.9
Peak blood levels of free acetaminophen are not reached until 3 hours after rectal administration of the suppository form of acetaminophen and the peak blood concentration is approximately 50% of the observed concentration after the ingestion of an equivalent oral dose (10-20 mcg/mL).23 The percentage of a systemically absorbed rectal dose of acetaminophen is inconsistent, demonstrated by major differences in the bioavailability of acetaminophen after a dose administered rectally. Higher rectal doses or an increased frequency of administration may be used to attain blood concentrations of acetaminophen similar to those attained after oral acetaminophen administration.Label  Volume of distribution is about 0.9L/kg. 10 to 20% of the drug is bound to red blood cells.11 Acetaminophen appears to be widely distributed throughout most body tissues except in fat.Label The binding of acetaminophen to plasma proteins is low (ranging from 10% to 25%), when given at therapeutic doses.Label Acetaminophen is the major metabolite of phenacetin and acetanilid.23 Acetaminophen is mainly metabolized in the liver by first-order kinetics and its metabolism of comprised of 3 pathways: conjugation with glucuronide, conjugation with sulfate, and oxidation through the cytochrome P450 enzyme pathway, mainly CYP2E1, to produce a reactive metabolite (N-acetyl-p-benzoquinone imine or NAPQI). At normal therapeutic doses, NAPQI undergoes fast conjugation with glutathione and is subsequently metabolized to produce both cysteine and mercapturic acid conjugates.Label High doses of acetaminophen (overdoses) can lead to hepatic necrosis due to the depletion of glutathione and of binding of high levels of reactive metabolite (NAPQI) to important parts of liver cells. The abovementioned damage to the liver can be prevented by the early administration of sulfhydryl compounds, for example, methionine and N-acetylcysteine.12 Hover over products below to view reaction partners Acetaminophen metabolites are mainly excreted in the urine. Less than 5% is excreted in the urine as free (unconjugated) acetaminophen and at least 90% of the administered dose is excreted within 24 hours.23 The half-life for adults is 2.5 h after an intravenous dose of 15 mg/kg.Label After an overdose, the half-life can range from 4 to 8 hours depending on the severity of injury to the liver, as it heavily metabolizes acetaminophen.9 Adults: 0.27 L/h/kg following a 15 mg/kg intravenous (IV) dose.Label
Dihydroergotamine | DrugBank Online A 9,10alpha-dihydro derivative of ergotamine. It is used as a vasoconstrictor, specifically for the therapy of migraine disorders. For the acute treatment of migraine headaches with or without aura and the acute treatment of cluster headache episodes. Dihydroergotamine is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine headaches with or without aura and the acute treatment of cluster headache episodes. Dihydroergotamine binds with high affinity to 5-HT1Da and 5-HT1Db receptors. It also binds with high affinity to serotonin 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A, and 5-HT2C receptors, noradrenaline a2A, a2B and a receptors, and dopamine D2L and D3 receptors. The therapeutic activity of Dihydroergotamine in migraine is generally attributed to the agonist effect at 5-HT1D receptors. Two theories have been proposed to explain the efficacy of 5-HT1D receptor agonists in migraine: 1) activation of 5-HT1D receptors located on intracranial blood vessels, including those on arterio-venous anastomoses, leads to vasoconstriction, which correlates with the relief of migraine headache and 2) activation of 5-HT1D receptors on sensory nerve endings of the trigeminal system results in the inhibition of pro-inflammatory neuropeptide release. Interpatient variable and may be dependent on the administration technique 93% (to plasma proteins) Hepatic The major excretory route of dihydroergotamine is via the bile in the feces.
Amitriptyline | DrugBank Online Amitriptyline hydrochloride, also known as Elavil, is a tricyclic antidepressant (TCA) with analgesic properties, widely used to treat depression and neuropathic pain 5. It was originally approved by the FDA in 1977 and manufactured by Sandoz 11. This drug in indicated for the following conditions Label: Major depressive disorder in adults Management of neuropathic pain in adults Prophylactic treatment of chronic tension-type headache (CTTH) in adults Prophylactic treatment of migraine in adults Treatment of nocturnal enuresis in children aged 6 years and above when organic pathology, including spina bifida and related disorders, have been excluded and no response has been achieved to all other non-drug and drug treatments, including antispasmodics and vasopressin-related products. This product should only be prescribed by a healthcare professional with expertise in the management of persistent enuresis Label Off-label uses: irritable bowel syndrome, sleep disorders, diabetic neuropathy, agitation, fibromyalgia, and insomnia  Effects in pain and depression Amitriptyline is a tricyclic antidepressant and an analgesic. It has anticholinergic and sedative properties Label.
Clinical studies have shown that oral amitriptyline achieves, at a minimum, good to moderate response in up to 2/3 of patients diagnosed with post-herpetic neuralgia and 3/4 of patients diagnosed with diabetic neuropathic pain, and neurogenic pain syndromes that are frequently unresponsive to narcotic analgesics. Amitriptyline has also shown efficacy in diverse groups of patients with chronic non-malignant pain. There have also been some studies showing efficacy in managing fibromyalgia (an off-label use of this drug) 5, 8. Cardiovascular and Anticholinergic Effects Amitriptyline has strong anticholinergic properties and may cause ECG changes and quinidine-like effects on the heart 12. Amitriptyline may inhibit ion channels, which are necessary for cardiac repolarization (hERG channels), in the upper micromolar range of therapeutic plasma concentrations. Therefore, amitriptyline may increase the risk for cardiac arrhythmia Label. Orthostatic hypotension and tachycardia can be a problem in elderly patients receiving this drug at normal doses for depression. There is evidence in the literature that these effects may occur, rarely, at the lower dosages utilized in the treatment of pain. As with any other tricyclic antidepressant agent, increased glucose levels can occur with amitriptyline 6.  Effects on seizure threshold This drug also decreases the convulsive threshold and causes alterations in EEG and sleep patterns 12.  The mechanism of action of this drug is not fully elucidated. It is suggested that amitriptyline inhibits the membrane pump mechanism responsible for the re-uptake of transmitter amines, such as norepinephrine and serotonin, thereby increasing their concentration at the synaptic clefts of the brain Label, 10. These amines are important in regulating mood. The monoamine hypothesis in depression, one of the oldest hypotheses, postulates that deficiencies of serotonin (5-HT) and/or norepinephrine (NE) neurotransmission in the brain lead to depressive effects 9. This drug counteracts these mechanisms, and this may be the mechanism of amitriptyline in improving depressive symptoms. Whether its analgesic effects are related to its mood-altering activities or attributable to a different, less obvious pharmacological action (or a combination of both) is unknown 6. Rapidly absorbed following oral administration (bioavailability is 30-60% due to first pass metabolism). Peak plasma concentrations are reached 2-12 hours after oral or intramuscular administration Label. Steady-state plasma concentrations vary greatly and this variation may be due to genetic differences 12.  The apparent volume of distribution (Vd)β estimated after intravenous administration is 1221 L±280 L; range 769-1702 L (16±3 L/kg) Label. It is found widely distributed throughout the body 6. Amitriptyline and the main metabolite nortriptyline pass across the placental barrier and small amounts are present in breast milk Label. Very highly protein bound (95%) in plasma and tissues Label. In vitro, the metabolism of amitriptyline occurs mainly by demethylation (CYP2C19, CYP3A4) as well as hydroxylation (CYP2D6) followed by conjugation with glucuronic acid. Other isozymes involved in amitriptyline metabolism are CYP1A2 and CYP2C9. The metabolism of this drug is subject to genetic polymorphisms. The main active metabolite is the secondary amine, nortriptyline Label. Nortriptyline is a stronger inhibitor of noradrenaline than of serotonin uptake, while amitriptyline inhibits the uptake of noradrenaline and serotonin with equal efficacy. Other metabolites such as cis- and trans-10-hydroxyamitriptyline and cis- and trans-10-hydroxynortriptyline have the same pharmacologic profile as nortriptyline but are significantly weaker. Demethylnortriptyline and amitriptyline N oxide are only present in plasma in negligible amounts; the latter is mostly inactive Label.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Amitriptyline and its metabolites are mainly excreted in the urine. Virtually the entire dose is excreted as glucuronide or sulfate conjugate of metabolites, with approximately 2% of unchanged drug appearing in the urine Label. 25-50% of a single orally administered dose is excreted in urine as inactive metabolites within 24 hours Label. Small amounts are excreted in feces via biliary elimination 12.  The elimination half-life (t1⁄2 β) amitriptyline after peroral administration is about 25 hours (24.65 ± 6.31 hours; range 16.49-40.36 hours) Label. The mean systemic clearance (Cls) is 39.24 ± 10.18 L/h (range: 24.53-53.73 L/h) Label. No clear effect of older age on the pharmacokinetics of amitriptyline has been determined, although it is possible that clearance may be decreased 6. Toxicity Data: Oral TDLO (child): 4167 μg/kg; Oral TDLO (man): 714 μg/kg/1D (intermittent); Oral TDLO (woman): 10 mg/kg 12.  Ingestion of 750 mg or more by an adult may result in severe toxicity. The effects in overdose are further increased by simultaneous ingestion of alcohol and another psychotropic agent Label. Symptoms of overdose include abnormally low blood pressure, confusion, convulsions, dilated pupils and other eye problems, disturbed concentration, drowsiness, hallucinations, impaired heart function, rapid or irregular heartbeat, reduced body temperature, stupor, and unresponsiveness or coma, among others Label, 12.  Use in pregnancy For amitriptyline, only limited clinical data are available regarding its use in pregnancy.
Amitriptyline is not recommended during pregnancy unless clearly required and only after careful consideration of both risks and benefits Label. Use in breastfeeding Amitriptyline and its metabolites are excreted into breast milk (corresponding to 0.6 % - 1 % of the maternal dose). A risk to the suckling child must be considered. A decision should be made as to whether it is appropriate to discontinue breastfeeding or to discontinue/abstain from the therapy of this medicinal product, considering the benefit of breastfeeding for the child and the benefit of therapy for the woman. Effects on fertility Animal studies have shown reproductive toxicity. No data on the effects of amitriptyline on human fertility are available Label. Mutagenesis and carcinogenesis The genotoxic potential of amitriptyline has been investigated in various in vitro and in vivo studies. Although these investigations showed
Fluorometholone | DrugBank Online A glucocorticoid employed, usually as eye drops, in the treatment of allergic and inflammatory conditions of the eye. It has also been used topically in the treatment of various skin disorders. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p732) For the ophthalmic treatment of corticosteroid-responsive inflammation of the palpebral and bulbar conjunctiva, cornea and anterior segment of the globe. Corticosteroids such as fluorometholone inhibit the inflammatory response to a variety of inciting agents and probably delay or slow healing. They inhibit the edema, fibrin deposition, capillary dilation, leukocyte migration, capillary proliferation, fibroblast proliferation, deposition of collagen, and scar formation associated with inflammation. There is no generally accepted explanation for the mechanism of action of ocular corticosteroids. However, corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins, collectively called lipocortins. It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor, arachidonic acid. Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2. Their primary target is the cytosolic glucocorticoid receptor. After binding the receptor the newly formed receptor-ligand complex translocates itself into the cell nucleus, where it binds to many glucocorticoid response elements (GRE) in the promoter region of the target genes. The DNA bound receptor then interacts with basic transcription factors, causing the increase in expression of specific target genes. Side effects may include acute anterior uveitis and perforation of the globe. Keratitis, conjunctivitis, corneal ulcers, mydriasis, conjunctival hyperemia, loss of accommodation and ptosis have occasionally been reported following local use of corticosteroids. LD50 = 234 mg/kg (rats) Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Fried, J.; U.S. Patent 2,852,51 September 16,1958; assigned to Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation.
 Lincoln, F.H. Jr., Schneider, W.P. and Spero, G.B.; US. Patent 2,867,637; January 6, 1959; assigned to The Upjohn Company .
Lincoln, F.H. Jr., Schneider, W.P. and Spero, G.B.; U.S. Patent 2,867,638; January 6, 1959; assigned to The Upjohn Company.
Methadone | DrugBank Online Methadone is a potent synthetic analgesic that works as a full µ-opioid receptor (MOR) agonist and N-methyl-d-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist. As a full MOR agonist, methadone mimics the natural effects of the body's opioids, endorphins, and enkephalins through the release of neurotransmitters involved in pain transmission. It also has a number of unique characteristics that have led to its increased use in the last two decades; in particular, methadone has a lower risk of neuropsychiatric toxicity compared to other opioids (due to a lack of active metabolites), minimal accumulation in renal failure, good bioavailability, low cost, and a long duration of action.21,22,23,14,19,20  Due to its unique mechanism of action, methadone is particularly useful for the management of hard to treat pain syndromes such as neuropathic pain and cancer pain requiring higher and more frequent doses of shorter-acting opioids.15,16,18 Compared with morphine, the gold standard reference opioid, methadone also acts as an agonist of κ- and σ-opioid receptors, as an antagonist of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor, and as an inhibitor of serotonin and norepinephrine uptake.2,7 Specifically by inhibiting the NMDA receptor, methadone dampens a major excitatory pain pathway within the central nervous system.12 Compared to other opioids, methadone's effects on NMDA inhibition may explain it's improved analgesic efficacy and reduced opioid tolerance.16,17 Methadone shares similar effects and risks of other opioids such as morphine, hydromorphone, oxycodone, and fentanyl. However, it also has a unique pharmacokinetic profile. Compared with short-acting and even extended-release formulations of morphine, methadone displays a comparatively longer duration of action and half-life. These effects make methadone a good option for the treatment of severe pain and addiction as fewer doses are needed to maintain analgesia and prevent opioid withdrawal symptoms. However, methadone also has an unpredictable half-life with interindividual variability, which leads to an unpredictable risk of respiratory depression and overdose when initiating or titrating therapy.8 Overall, methadone's pharmacological actions result in analgesia, suppression of opioid withdrawal symptoms, sedation, miosis, sweating, hypotension, bradycardia, nausea and vomiting (via binding within the chemoreceptor trigger zone), and constipation. At higher doses, methadone use can result in respiratory depression, overdose, and death.21,22,23 Treatment of opioid addiction with methadone, buprenorphine, or slow-release oral morphine (SROM) is termed Opioid Agonist Treatment (OAT) or Opioid Substitution Therapy (OST). The intention of substitution of illicit opioids with the long-acting opioids used in OAT is to prevent withdrawal symptoms for 24-36 hours following dosing to ultimately reduce cravings and drug-seeking behaviours. Use of OAT is also intended to lead to social stabilization by reducing crime rates, incarceration, use of illicit opioids such as heroin or fentanyl, and ultimately marginalization.13 Illegally purchased opioids present many other harms in addition to overdose as they can be injected and may be laced with other substances that increase the risk of harm or overdose. Provision of OAT is often combined with education about harm reduction including use of clean needles and injection supplies in an effort to reduce the risks associated with injection drug use such as contraction of HIV and Hepatitis C and other complications including skin infections, abscesses, or endocarditis. Methadone is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatment options are inadequate. It's recommended that use is reserved for use in patients for whom alternative treatment options (eg, nonopioid analgesics, opioid combination products) are ineffective, not tolerated, or would be otherwise inadequate to provide sufficient management of pain.22 Methadone is also indicated for detoxification treatment of opioid addiction (heroin or other morphine-like drugs), and for maintenance substitution treatment for opioid dependence in adults in conjunction with appropriate social and medical services.21,23 Overall, methadone's pharmacological actions result in analgesia, suppression of opioid withdrawal symptoms, sedation, miosis (through binding to receptors in the pupillary muscles), sweating, hypotension, bradycardia, nausea and vomiting (via binding within the chemoreceptor trigger zone), and constipation. Like many basic drugs, methadone also enters mast cells and releases histamine by a non-immunological mechanism leading to flushing, pruritus, and urticaria, which can commonly be misattributed to an allergic reaction.  Compared to other opioids, methadone has fewer active metabolites and therefore a lower risk of neuropsychiatric toxicity. This means that higher doses needed to manage severe pain or addiction are less likely to result in delirium, hyperalgesia, or seizures.19,20 Similar to morphine, both methadone isomers are 5-HT(3) receptor antagonists, although l-methadone produces greater inhibition than d-methadone.  Methadone's effects are reversible by naloxone with a pA2 value similar to its antagonism of morphine.21,22,23 Dependence and Tolerance As with other opioids, tolerance and physical dependence may develop upon repeated administration of methadone and there is a potential for development of psychological dependence. Physical dependence and tolerance reflect the neuroadaptation of the opioid receptors to chronic exposure to an opioid and are separate and distinct from abuse and addiction. Tolerance, as well as physical dependence, may develop upon repeated administration of opioids, and are not by themselves evidence of an addictive disorder or abuse. Patients on prolonged therapy should be tapered gradually from the drug if it is no longer required for pain control. Withdrawal symptoms may occur following abrupt discontinuation of therapy or upon administration of an opioid antagonist. Some of the symptoms that may be associated with abrupt withdrawal of an opioid analgesic include body aches, diarrhea, gooseflesh, loss of appetite, nausea, nervousness or restlessness, anxiety, runny nose, sneezing, tremors or shivering, stomach cramps, tachycardia, trouble with sleeping, unusual increase in sweating, palpitations, unexplained fever, weakness and yawning.21,22,23 Cardiac Conduction Effects Laboratory studies, both in vivo and in vitro, have demonstrated that methadone inhibits cardiac potassium channels and prolongs the QT interval. Cases of QT interval prolongation and serious arrhythmia (torsades de pointes) have been observed during treatment with methadone. These cases appear to be more commonly associated with, but not limited to, higher dose treatment (> 200 mg/day). Methadone should be administered with particular caution to patients already at risk for development of prolonged QT interval (e.g., cardiac hypertrophy, concomitant diuretic use, hypokalemia, hypomagnesemia). Careful monitoring is recommended when using methadone in patients with a history of cardiac conduction disease, those taking medications affecting cardiac conduction, and in other cases where history or physical exam suggest an increased risk of dysrhythmia.21,22,23 Respiratory Depression and Overdose Serious, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression may occur with use of methadone. Patients should be
Atenolol | DrugBank Online Atenolol is a cardioselective beta-blocker used in a variety of cardiovascular conditions.  Sir James Black, a scottish pharmacologist, pioneered the use of beta-blockers for the management of angina pectoris in 1958 for which he received the Nobel Prize.19 Beta-blockers quickly became popular in clinical use and where subsequently investigated for use in myocardial infarction, arrhythmias, and hypertension during the 1960s. Later they continued to be investigated for use in heart failure throughout the 1970-1980s. Atenolol itself was developed early on in this history by Alvogen Malta under the trade name Tenormin and received FDA approval in September, 1981.Label Indicated for:Label 1) Management of hypertension alone and in combination with other antihypertensives. 2) Management of angina pectoris associated with coronary atherosclerosis. 3) Management of acute myocardial infarction in hemodynamically stable patients with a heart rate greater than 50 beats per minutes and a systolic blood pressure above 100 mmHg. Off-label uses include: 1) Secondary prevention of myocardial infarction.4 2) Management of heart failure.3 3) Management of atrial fibrillation.1 4) Management of supraventricular tachycardia.5 5) Management of ventricular arrythmias such as congenital long-QT and arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy.6 6) Management of symptomatic thyrotoxicosis in combination with methimazole.2 7) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches.7 8) Management of alcohol withdrawal.8,9 Atenolol is a cardio-selective beta-blocker and as such exerts most of its effects on the heart.Label It acts as an antagonist to sympathetic innervation and prevents increases in heart rate, electrical conductivity, and contractility in the heart due to increased release of norepinephrine from the peripheral nervous system.Label,20,14 Together the decreases in contractility and rate produce a reduction in cardiac output resulting in a compensatory increase in peripheral vascular resistance in the short-term. This response later declines to baseline with long-term use of atenolol. More importantly, this reduction in the work demanded of the myocardium also reduces oxygen demand which provides therapeutic benefit by reducing the mismatch of oxygen supply and demand in settings where coronary blood flow is limited, such as in coronary atherosclerosis. Reducing oxygen demand, particularly due to exercise, can reduce the frequency of angina pectoris symptoms and potentially improve survival of the remaining myocardium after myocardial infarction. The decrease in rate of sinoatrial node potentials, electrical conduction, slowing of potentials traveling through the atrioventricular node, and reduced frequency of ectopic potentials due to blockade of adrenergic beta receptors has led to benefit in arrhythmic conditions such as atrial fibrillation by controlling the rate of action potential generation and allowing for more effective coordinated contractions. Since a degree of sympathetic activity is necessary to maintain cardiac function, the reduced contractility induced by atenolol may precipitate or worsen heart failure, especially during volume overload.Label The effects of atenolol on blood pressure have been established, although it is less effective than alternative beta-blockers, but the mechanism has not yet been characterized.Label,20 As a β1 selective drug, it does not act via the vasodilation produced by non-selective agents.20 Despite this there is a sustained reduction in peripheral vascular resistance, and consequently blood pressure, alongside a decrease in cardiac output. It is thought that atenolol's antihypertensive activity may be related to action on the central nervous system (CNS) or it's inhibition of the renin-aldosterone-angiotensin system rather than direct effects on the vasculature.Label Atenolol produces CNS effects similar to other beta-blockers, but does so to a lesser extent due to reduces ability to cross the blood-brain barrier.20 It has the potential to produce fatigue, depression, and sleep disturbances such as nightmares or insomnia.Label,20 The exact mechanisms behind these have not been characterized but their occurrence must be considered as they represent clinically relevant adverse effects. Atenolol exerts some effects on the respiratory system although to a much lesser extent than non-selective beta-blockers.Label Interaction with β2 receptors in the airways can produce bronchoconstriction by blocking the relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle mediated by the sympathetic nervous system.20 The same action can interfere with β-agonist therapies used in asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.Label,14,20 Unlike some other beta-blocker drugs, atenolol does not have intrinsic sympathomimetic or membrane stabilizing activity nor does it produce changes in glycemic control.Label Atenolol is a cardioselective beta-blocker, called such because it selectively binds to the β1-adrenergic receptor as an antagonist up to a reported 26 fold more than β2 receptors.15 Selective activity at the β1 receptor produces cardioselectivity due to the higher population of this receptor in cardiac tissue. Some binding to β2 and possibly β3 receptors can still occur at therapeutic dosages but the effects mediated by antagonizing these are significantly reduced from those of non-selective agents. β1 and β2 receptors are Gs coupled therefore antagonism of their activation reduces activity of adenylyl cyclase and its downstream signalling via cyclic adenosime monophosphate and protein kinase A (PKA).  In cardiomyocytes PKA is thought to mediate activation of L-type calcium channels and ryanodine receptors through their phosphorylation.16 L-type calcium channels can then provide an initial rise in intracellular calcium and trigger the ryanodine receptors to release calcium stored in the sarcoplasmic reticulum (SR) and increased contractility. PKA also plays a role in the cessation of contraction by phosphorylating phospholamban which in turn increases the affinity of SR Ca2+ ATPase to increase reuptake of calcium into the SR. It also phophorylates troponin I to reduce affinity of the protein for calcium. Both of these events lead to a reduction in contraction which, when coupled with the initial increase in contraction, allows for faster cycling and consequently higher heart rate with increased contractility. L-type calcium channels are also a major contributor to cardiac depolarization and their activation can increase frequency of action potentials and possibly the incidence of ectopic potentials.17  Similar inihibitory events occur in the bronchial smooth muscle to mediate relaxation including phosphorylation of myosin light-chain kinase, reducing its affinity for calcium.18 PKA also inhibits the excitatory Gq coupled pathway by phosphorylating the inositol trisphosphate receptor and phospholipase C resulting in inhibition of intracellular calcium release. Antagonism of this activity by beta-blocker agents like atenolol can thus cause increased bronchoconstriction. Approximately 50% of an oral dose is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, with the remainder being excreted unchanged in the feces.Label Administering atenolol with food can decrease the AUC by about 20%.10 While atenolol can cross the blood-brain barrier, it does so slowly and to a small extent. Total Vd of 63.8-112.5 L. Atenolol distributes into a central volume of 12.8-17.5 L along with two peripheral compartments with a combined volume of 51-95 L.10 Distribution takes about 3 hrs for the central compartment, 4 hrs for the shallower peripheral compartment, and 5-6 hrs for the deeper peripheral compartment. 6-16% bound in plasma.Label Atenolol binds to two sites on human serum albumin.12 Minimal metabolism in the liver.Label The sole non-conjugated metabolite is the product of a hydroxylation reaction at the carbon between the amide and benzene groups.11 The only other metabolite to be confirmed is a glucuronide conjugate. These metabolites make up 5-8% and 2% of the renally excreted dose with 87-90% appearing as unchanged drug. The hydroxylated metabolite is exerts 1/10th the beta-blocking activity of atenolol. Hover over products below to view reaction partners 85% is eliminated by the kidneys following IV administration with 10% appearing in the feces.Label,10 6-7 hrs.Label Total clearance is estimated at 97.3-176.3 mL/min with a renal clearance of 95-168 mL/min.10 LD50 Values Mouse: 2 g/kg (Oral), 57 mg/kg (IV), 134 mg/kg (IP), 400 mg/kg (SC)22 Rat: 2 g/kg (Oral), 77 mg/kg (IV), 600 mg/kg (SC)22 Rabbit: 50 mg/kg (IV)22 Carcinogenicity & Mutagenicity Studies in rats and mice at doses of 300 mg/kg/day, equivalent to 150 times maximum recommended human dose, for durations of 18 and 24 months showed no carcinogenicity.Label One study in rats at doses of 500-1500 mg/kg/day, 250-750 times maximum human dose, resulted in increases benign adrenal medullary tumors in both sexes and increase mammary fibroadenomas in females. Atenolol showed no mutagenicity in the Ames test using S. typhinarium, dominant lethal test in mice, or in vivo cytogenetics test in chinese hamster ovary cells.Label Reproductive Toxicity No adverse effects on fertility were observed in either male or female mice after receiving doses of 200 mg/kg/day, equivalent to 200 times the maximum human dose. In humans, atenolol is known to cross the placenta and fetuses exposed to the drug have been reported to be smaller than expected considering gestational age. Embryo-fetal resorption has been observed in rats at doses of 50mg/kg/day, 50 times the max human dose, but not in rabbits at doses of 25mg/kg/day.Label Lactation Atenolol appears in breast milk at a ratio of 1.5-6.8 to plasma concentrations.Label It has been estimated that infant exposure occurs at 5.7-19.2% maternal weight-adjusted dosage.21 Effects in infants include bradycardia, hypothermia, and lethargy. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Barrett, A.M., Carter, J., Hull, R., Le Count, D.J. and Squire, C.J.; U.S. Patent 3,663,607;
May 16, 1972; assigned to Imperial Chemical Industries Limited, England.
Barrett, A.M., Carter, J., Hull, R., Le Count, D.J. and Squire, C.J.; U.S. Patent 3,836,671;
Omeprazole | DrugBank Online Originally approved by the FDA in 1989, omeprazole is a proton-pump inhibitor, used to treat gastric acid-related disorders. These disorders may include gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), peptic ulcer disease, and other diseases characterized by the oversecretion of gastric acid. This drug was the first clinical useful drug in its class, and its approval was followed by the formulation of many other proton pump inhibitor drugs 6. Omeprazole is generally effective and well-tolerated, promoting its popular use in children and adults Label. Omeprazole, according to the FDA label Label is a proton pump inhibitor (PPI) used for the following purposes: • Treatment of active duodenal ulcer in adults  • Eradication of Helicobacter pylori to reduce the risk of duodenal ulcer
recurrence in adults  • Treatment of active benign gastric ulcer in adults  • Treatment of symptomatic gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD) in
patients 1 year of age and older  • Treatment of erosive esophagitis (EE) due to acid-mediated GERD in
patients 1 month of age and older  • Maintenance of healing of EE due to acid-mediated GERD in patients 1
year of age and older  • Pathologic hypersecretory conditions in adults Effects on gastric acid secretion This drug decreases gastric acid secretion Label. After oral administration, the onset of the antisecretory effect of omeprazole is usually achieved within one hour, with the maximum effect occurring by 2 hours after administration. The inhibitory effect of omeprazole on acid secretion increases with repeated once-daily dosing, reaching a plateau after four days Label. Effects on serum gastrin In studies of 200 or more patients, serum gastrin levels increased during the first 1-2 weeks of daily administration of therapeutic doses of omeprazole. This occurred in a parallel fashion with the inhibition of acid secretion. No further increase in serum gastrin occurred with continued omeprazole administration. Increased gastrin causes enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia and increased serum Chromogranin A (CgA) levels. The increased CgA levels may lead to false positive results in diagnostic studies for neuroendocrine tumors Label. Enterochromaffin-like (ECL) cell effects Human gastric biopsy samples have been obtained from more than 3000 pediatric and adult patients treated with omeprazole in long-term clinical studies. The incidence of enterochromaffin-like cell hyperplasia in these studies increased with time; however, no case of ECL cell carcinoids, dysplasia, or neoplasia have been identified in these patients. These studies, however, are of insufficient in power and duration to draw conclusions on the possible influence of long-term administration of omeprazole in the development of any premalignant or malignant conditions Label.  Other effects Systemic effects of omeprazole in the central nervous system, cardiovascular and respiratory systems have not been found to date. Omeprazole, given in oral doses of 30 or 40 mg for 2-4 weeks, showed no effect on thyroid function, carbohydrate metabolism, or circulating levels of parathyroid hormone, cortisol, estradiol, testosterone, prolactin, cholecystokinin or secretin Label.  Hydrochloric acid (HCl) secretion into the gastric lumen is a process regulated mainly by the H(+)/K(+)-ATPase of the proton pump 10, expressed in high quantities by the parietal cells of the stomach. ATPase is an enzyme on the parietal cell membrane that facilitates hydrogen and potassium exchange through the cell, which normally results in the extrusion of potassium and formation of HCl (gastric acid) 9. Omeprazole is a member of a class of antisecretory compounds, the substituted benzimidazoles, that stop gastric acid secretion by selective inhibition of the H+/K+ ATPase enzyme system. Proton-pump inhibitors such as omeprazole bind covalently to cysteine residues via disulfide bridges on the alpha subunit of the H+/K+ ATPase pump, inhibiting gastric acid secretion for up to 36 hours 11. This antisecretory effect is dose-related and leads to the inhibition of both basal and stimulated acid secretion, regardless of the stimulus Label.  Mechanism of H. pylori eradication Peptic ulcer disease (PUD) is frequently associated with Helicobacter pylori bacterial infection (NSAIDs) 12. The treatment of H. pylori infection may include the addition of omeprazole or other proton pump inhibitors as part of the treatment regimen Label, 13.
H. pylori replicates most effectively at a neutral pH 14. Acid inhibition in H. pylori eradication therapy, including proton-pump inhibitors such as omeprazole, raises gastric pH, discouraging the growth of H.pylori 13. It is generally believed that proton pump inhibitors inhibit the urease enzyme, which increases the pathogenesis of H. pylori in gastric-acid related conditions 15.  Omeprazole delayed-release capsules contain an enteric-coated granule formulation of omeprazole (because omeprazole is acid-labile), so that absorption of omeprazole begins only after the granules exit the stomach Label.  Absorption of omeprazole occurs rapidly, with peak plasma concentrations of omeprazole achieved within 0.5-3.5 hours Label.  Absolute bioavailability (compared with intravenous administration) is approximately 30-40% at doses of 20-40 mg, largely due to pre-systemic metabolism. The bioavailability of omeprazole increases slightly upon repeated administration of omeprazole delayed-release capsules Label. Approximately 0.3 L/kg, corresponding to the volume of extracellular water 5.  Approximately 95% bound to human plasma proteins Label.  Omeprazole is heavily metabolized in the liver by the cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzyme system. The main part of its metabolism depends on the polymorphically expressed CYP2C19, which is responsible for the formation of hydroxyomeprazole, the major metabolite found in plasma. The remaining part depends on CYP3A4, responsible for the formation of omeprazole sulphone Label.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners After a single dose oral dose of a buffered solution of omeprazole, negligible (if any) amounts of unchanged drug were excreted in urine. Most of the dose (about 77%) was eliminated in urine as at least six different metabolites. Two metabolites were identified as hydroxyomeprazole and the corresponding carboxylic acid. The remainder of the dose was found in the feces. This suggests significant biliary excretion of omeprazole metabolites. Three metabolites have been identified in the plasma, the sulfide and sulfone derivatives of omeprazole, and hydroxyomeprazole. These metabolites possess minimal or no antisecretory activity Label.  0.5-1 hour (healthy subjects, delayed-release capsule) Label
Cetirizine | DrugBank Online Cetirizine, also commonly known as Zyrtec, is an orally active second-generation histamine H1 antagonist proven effective in the treatment of various allergic symptoms, such as sneezing, coughing, nasal congestion, hives, and other symptoms 1, 2.  One of the most common uses for this drug is for a condition called allergic rhinitis. The prevalence of allergic rhinitis in the United States is about 15% according to physician diagnoses, and up to 30%, according to self-reported nasal symptoms. Allergic rhinitis is associated with multiple missed or unproductive days at work and school, problems with sleep, and other difficulties with day to day activities for many individuals 3. Furthermore, some antihistamine agents that are used to treat this condition cause undesirable, sedating effects 4.  Cetirizine is one of the first second-generation H1 antihistamines (SGAHs)formulated to selectively inhibit the H1 receptor without sedating effects 2. Seasonal Allergic Rhinitis: Indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with seasonal allergic rhinitis caused by allergens such as ragweed, grass and tree pollens in adults and children 2 years of age and above. Symptoms treated effectively include sneezing, rhinorrhea, nasal pruritus, ocular pruritus, tearing, and redness of the eyes Label.  Perennial allergic rhinitis: This drug is indicated for the relief of symptoms associated with perennial allergic rhinitis due to allergens including dust mites, animal dander, and molds in adults and children 6 months of age and older. Symptoms treated effectively include sneezing, rhinorrhea, postnasal discharge, nasal pruritus, ocular pruritus, and tearing Label.  Chronic urticaria: Cetirizine is indicated for the treatment of the uncomplicated skin manifestations of chronic idiopathic urticaria in adults and children 6 months of age and older. It markedly reduces the occurrence, severity, and duration of hives and significantly reduces pruritus Label. General effects and respiratory effects Cetirizine, the active metabolite of the piperazine H1-receptor antagonist hydroxyzine, minimizes or eliminates the symptoms of chronic idiopathic urticaria, perennial allergic rhinitis, seasonal allergic rhinitis, allergic asthma, physical urticaria, and atopic dermatitis.
Clobazam | DrugBank Online Clobazam belongs to the 1,5-benzodiazepine class of drugs and is expected to have a better side-effect profile compared to older 1,4-benzodiazepines. It has been marketed as an anxiolytic since 1975 and an anticonvulsant since 1984. The oral preparation was FDA approved on October 21, 2011. An oral suspension is expected to be available in 2013. For treatment and management of epilepsy and seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome, a difficult-to-treat form of childhood epilepsy.  Similar to other benzodiazepines, clobazam binds to the interface of the α and γ2-subunit of the GABA-A receptor. However, it is considered a partial agonist to GABA-A receptors which sets clobazam apart from 1,4-benzodiazepines which are full agonist. The significance of this difference is that one may experience less sedation with clobazam than with other benzodiazepines. Unlike the endogenous GABA ligand, clobazam binds allosterically to the GABA receptor to increase the frequency of the chloride channel opening and membrane permeability to chloride ions. Pharmacodynamic tolerance has been demonstrated in animal models.  Clobazam binds at distinct binding sites associated with the chloride ionopore at the post-synaptic GABA receptor. These GABA receptors are in various locations in the CNS (limbic, reticular formation) and clobazam increases the duration of time for which the chloride ionopore is open. As a result, hyper polarization and stabilization of the membrane occur as the post-synaptic inhibitory effect of GABA is enhanced.  After oral administration of clobazam, it is almost completely absorbed (87% of dose). Bioavailability relative to solution was almost at 100%. Food does not affect absorption.
Tmax = 1-3 hours. Vdss = 100 L. This high volume of distribution suggests extensive distribution to body tissues.  Clobazam is the primary circulating entity in the serum and is highly protein-bound (80-90%).  Clobazam is extensively metabolized in the liver via N-demethylation and hydroxylation to form two major metabolites, N-desmethylclobazam (norclobazam) and 4'-hydroxyclobazam, respectively. N-desmethylclobazam (norclobazam) retains pharmacological activity. Norclobazam is one-fourth the potency of clobazam. The main enzyme that facilitates the process of N-demethylation is CYP3A4, and to a lesser extent by CYP2C19 and CYP2B6. Norclobazam itself is also metabolized via hydroxylation, primarily by CYP2C19. The formation of 4'-hydroxyclobazam is facilitated by CYP2C18 and CYP2C19. A factor in determining extent of metabolism is the genetic profile of the individual patient as CYP2C19 is a polymorphic enzyme.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Clobazam is eliminated via the urine (~94%) as metabolites.  The mean elimination half life of an oral dose of clobazam 40 mg is 32 hours. It's main metabolite, norclobazam, as a half life of 57 hours. The half life in adult patients with epilepsy are higher than those that are healthy.  Median estimated clearance = 2.49 L/h  The most common adverse effects include somnolence, pyrexia, upper respiratory tract infection, and lethargy.  Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Hauptmann, K.H., Weber, K.-H., Zeile, K., Danneberg, P. and Giesemann, R.; South African
Megestrol acetate | DrugBank Online 17-Hydroxy-6-methylpregna-3,6-diene-3,20-dione. A progestational hormone used most commonly as the acetate ester. As the acetate, it is more potent than progesterone both as a progestagen and as an ovulation inhibitor. It has also been used in the palliative treatment of breast cancer. For the treatment of anorexia, cachexia, or an unexplained, significant weight loss in patients with a diagnosis of acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS). Also used for the palliative management of recurrent, inoperable, or metastatic breast cancer, endometrial cancer, and prostate cancer in Canada and some other countries. Megestrol is a synthetic progestin and has the same physiologic effects as natural progesterone. These effects include induction of secretory changes in the endometrium, increase in basal body temperature, pituitary inhibition, and production of withdrawal bleeding in the presence of estrogen. Mestrogel has slight glucocorticoid activity and very slight mineralocorticoid activity. This drug has no estrogenic, androgenic, or anabolic activity. The precise mechanism of megestrol’s antianorexic and anticachetic effects is unknown. Initially developed as a contraceptive, it was first evaluated in breast cancer treatment in 1967. The precise mechanism by which megestrol acetate produces effects in anorexia and cachexia is unknown at the present time, but its progestin antitumour activity may involve suppression of luteinizing hormone by inhibition of pituitary function. Studies also suggest that the megestrol's weight gain effect is related to its appetite-stimulant or metabolic effects rather than its glucocorticoid-like effects or the production of edema. It has also been suggested that megestrol may alter metabolic pathyways via interferences with the production or action of mediators such as cachectin, a hormone that inhibits adipocyte lipogenic enzymes.  Variable, but well absorbed orally. Primarily hepatic. Megestrol metabolites which were identified in urine constituted 5% to 8% of the dose administered. Respiratory excretion as labeled carbon dioxide and fat storage may have accounted for at least part of the radioactivity not found in urine and feces. No active metabolites have been identified. The major route of drug elimination in humans is urine.
Vinorelbine | DrugBank Online Vinorelbine is an anti-mitotic chemotherapy drug that is used in the treatment of several types of malignancies, including breast cancer and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 5. It was initially approved in the USA in 1990's for the treatment of NSCLC 13. It is a third-generation vinca alkaloid. The introduction of third-generation drugs (vinorelbine, gemcitabine, taxanes) in platinum combination improved survival of patients with advanced NSCLC, with very similar results from the various drugs. Treatment toxicities are considerable in the combination treatment setting 2. A study was done on the clearance rate of vinorelbine on individuals with various single polymorphonuclear mutations. It was found that there was 4.3-fold variation in vinorelbine clearance across the cohort, suggesting a strong influence of genetics on the clearance of this drug 7. Vinorelbine tartrate is indicated for adults in the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), as a single therapy or in combination with other chemotherapeutic drugs 5. Used in relapsed or refractory Hodgkin lymphoma, in combination with other chemotherapy agents 14. For the treatment of desmoid tumor or aggressive fibromatosis, in combination with methotrexate 14. For the treatment of recurrent or metastatic squamous cell head and neck cancer 14. For the treatment of recurrent ovarian cancer 14. For the treatment of metastatic breast cancer, in patients previously treated with anthracyline and/or taxane therapy 14. For the treatment of HER2-positive, trastuzumab-resistant, advanced breast cancer in patients previously treated with a taxane, in combination with trastuzumab and everolimus 14. Vinorelbine is a semi-synthetic vinca-alkaloid with a wide spectrum of anti-tumor activity. The vinca-alkaloids are considered spindle poisons. They work by interfering with the polymerization of tubulin, a protein responsible for building the microtubule system which appears during cell division in proliferating cancer cells 11. Vinca alkaloids are structurally similar compounds composed of two multi-ringed units, vindoline, and catharanthine. Vinorelbine tartrate is a vinca alkaloid in which the catharanthine component is the target of structural modification 9, 10. This structural modification contributes to unique pharmacologic properties.The antitumor activity of vinorelbine tartrate is believed to be owed to the inhibition of mitosis at metaphase via its interaction with tubulin 5. Vinorelbine is a mitotic spindle poison that interferes with chromosomal segregation during mitosis, also known as cell division. It pauses cells at the G2/M phases, when present at concentrations close to the half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50). Microtubules, which are derived from polymers of tubulin, are the main target of vinorelbine.  The chemical modification used to produce vinorelbine allows for the opening of the eight-member catharanthine ring with the formation of both a covalent and reversible bond with tubulin 11. The relative contribution of different microtubule-associated proteins in the production of tubulin vary between neural tissue and proliferating cells and this has important functional implications. The ability of vinorelbine to bind specifically to mitotic rather than other microtubules has been shown and may suggest that neurotoxicity is less likely to be a problem than with the molecular mechanism of action 11.  As with other anti-microtubule agents, vinorelbine is known to contribute apoptosis in malignant cells. The exact mechanisms by which this process occurs are complex and many details are yet to be elucidated. The disarray of the microtubule structure has a number of effects, including the induction of tumor suppressor gene p53 and activation/inactivation of a number of protein kinases involved in essential signaling pathways, including p21 WAF1/CIP1 and Ras/Raf, PKC/PKA. These molecular changes lead to phosphorylation and consequently inactivation of the apoptosis inhibitor Bcl2. This, in turn, results in a decrease in the formation of heterodimers between Bcl2 and the pro-apoptotic gene BAX, stimulating the sequence of cell apoptosis 11. Vinorelbine tartrate also possibly interferes with amino acid, cyclic AMP and glutathione metabolism, calmodulin-dependent Ca++-transport ATPase activity, cellular respiration, and nucleic acid and lipid biosynthesis 5. Vinorelbine is rapidly absorbed with peak serum concentration reached within 2 hours 5. Vinorelbine is highly bound to platelets and lymphocytes and is also bound to alpha 1-acid glycoprotein, albumin, and lipoproteins 4. The volume of distribution is large, indicating extensive extravascular distribution 4. The steady-state volume of distribution values range from 25.4 to 40.1 L/kg, according to one study 7. Widely distributed, with highest amounts found in elimination organs such as liver and kidneys, minimal in heart and brain 7. 80-90% 6 Vinorelbine undergoes substantial hepatic elimination in humans. Two metabolites of vinorelbine have been identified in human blood, plasma, and urine; vinorelbine N-oxide and deacetylvinorelbine. Deacetylvinorelbine has been demonstrated to be the primary metabolite of vinorelbine in humans, and has been shown to possess antitumor activity similar to vinorelbine 9, 10. Vinorelbine is metabolized into two other minor metabolites, 20'-hydroxyvinorelbine and vinorelbine 6'-oxide 10. Therapeutic doses of vinorelbine (30 mg/m2) yield very small, if any, quantifiable levels of either metabolite in blood or urine. The metabolism of vinorelbine is mediated by hepatic cytochrome P450 isoenzymes in the CYP3A subfamily 8, 4. As the liver provides the main route for metabolism of the drug, patients with hepatic impairment may demonstrate increased toxicity with standard dosing, however, there are no available data on this. Likewise, the contribution of cytochrome P450 enzyme action to vinorelbine metabolism has potential implications in patients receiving other drugs metabolized by this route 11. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Vinorelbine undergoes substantial hepatic elimination in humans, with large amounts recovered in feces after intravenous administration to humans 5. Urinary excretion of unchanged drug accounts for less than 20% of an intravenous dose, with fecal elimination accounting for an additional 30% to 60% 4. After intravenous administration of radioactive vinorelbine, approximately 18% and 46% of administered radioactivity was recovered in urine and feces, respectively 7. The terminal phase half-life averaged 27.7 to 43.6 hours; the mean plasma clearances ranged from 0.97 to 1.26 L/hr/kg 4.  The plasma clearance of vinorelbine is high, approaching the same as hepatic blood flow in humans, and its volume of distribution is large, indicating extensive extravascular distribution. In comparison to vinblastine or vincristine 4.  The clearance was found to be in the range of 0.29-1./26 L/ per kg in 4 clinical trials of patients receiving 30 mg/m2 of vinorelbine 12. Due to the wide array of adverse effects of this drug, the toxicity of is categorized into organ systems 5. Hematologic: Granulocytopenia was the primary dose-limiting toxicity with vinorelbine tartrate therapy; it is generally reversible and not cumulative. In one study, granulocytopenia resulted in hospitalizations for fever and/or sepsis in 8% of NSCLC and 9% of breast cancer patients 5.
Infectious (septic) deaths occurred in about 1% of patients. Grade 3 or 4 anemia occurred in about 1% of lung cancer and approximately 14% of breast cancer patients. Blood transfusions were administered to 18% of patients who received vinorelbine tartrate therapy. The incidence of Grade 3 and 4 thrombocytopenia was found to be less than 1% 5. Neurologic: Mild to moderate peripheral neuropathy may occur. Symptoms of paresthesia and hypesthesia are reported as the most commonly reported neurologic toxicities of this drug. The loss of deep tendon reflexes (DTR) occurs in less than 5% of patients, according to one study. The development of severe peripheral neuropathy is rare 5. Dermatologic: Alopecia has been reported in only about 12% of patients and is usually reported as mild. Vinorelbine tartrate is a moderate vesicant, leading to injection site reactions. Symptoms include erythema, pain at the injection site and vein discoloration occurred in about 1/3 of all patients. Chemical phlebitis along the vein, near the site of injection, has been reported 5. Respiratory: Shortness of breath was reported in 3% of NSCLC and 9% of breast cancer patients, and was severe in 2% of each patient population. Interstitial pulmonary changes have been documented in a few patients 5. Gastrointestinal: Mild or moderate nausea symptoms occurred in 32% of NSCLC and 47% of breast cancer patients treated with vinorelbine tartrate. Severe nausea was occurred infrequently (1% and 3% in NSCLC and breast cancer patients, respectively). Prophylactic administration of anti-emetics was not routine in patients treated with single-agent vinorelbine tartrate. Constipation occurred in about 28% of NSCLC and 38% of breast cancer patients. The paralytic ileus incidence of less than 2% of patients. Vomiting, diarrhea, anorexia and stomatitis were found to be mild or moderate and occurred in less than 20% of study patients 5. Hepatic: Transient elevations of liver enzymes were reported without clinical symptoms.
Clozapine | DrugBank Online A tricyclic dibenzodiazepine, classified as an atypical antipsychotic agent. It binds several types of central nervous system receptors, and displays a unique pharmacological profile. Clozapine is a serotonin antagonist, with strong binding to 5-HT 2A/2C receptor subtype. It also displays strong affinity to several dopaminergic receptors, but shows only weak antagonism at the dopamine D2 receptor, a receptor commonly thought to modulate neuroleptic activity. Agranulocytosis is a major adverse effect associated with administration of this agent. For use in patients with treatment-resistant schizophrenia. Clozapine is a psychotropic agent belonging to the chemical class of benzisoxazole derivatives and is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. Clozapine is a selective monoaminergic antagonist with high affinity for the serotonin Type 2 (5HT2), dopamine Type 2 (D2), 1 and 2 adrenergic, and H1 histaminergic receptors. Clozapine acts as an antagonist at other receptors, but with lower potency. Antagonism at receptors other than dopamine and 5HT2 with similar receptor affinities may explain some of the other therapeutic and side effects of clozapine. Clozapine's antagonism of muscarinic M1-5 receptors may explain its anticholinergic effects. Clozapine's antagonism of histamine H1 receptors may explain the somnolence observed with this drug. Clozapine's antagonism of adrenergic a1 receptors may explain the orthostatic hypotension observed with this drug. Patients should be counseled regarding the risk of hypersensitivity reactions such as agranulocytosis and myocarditis with clozapine use.8
Clozapine induced agranulocytosis, which is a reduction in the absolute neutrophil count or white blood cell count, places the patient at an increased risk for infection.8 Agranulocytosis is most likely to occur in the first 3-6 months of therapy, but it can still occur after years of treatment. The mechanism is thought to be a dose-independent and immune-mediated reaction against neutrophils.6 Patients are strictly monitored by lab testing (complete blood count with differential) to ensure agranulocytosis is detected and treated if it occurs.8 Testing is initially completed at one-week intervals but is expanded to two-week intervals at six months, and then four-week intervals at twelve months if lab results have been within an appropriate range. Monitoring parameters may change if there is any break in therapy. In Canada, the patient's lab values are reported to the manufacturer for hematological monitoring, and in the USA, the patient's lab values are reported to the REMS (Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy) program.7 These programs function to notify the care provider of any significant drop in WBC/neutrophil count, or if there is a drop below a threshold level. Patients who enter the "Red" zone (WBC<2x109/L or ANC<1.5x109/L) should normally not be re-challenged.
Levonorgestrel | DrugBank Online Levonorgestrel (LNG) is a synthetic progestogen similar to Progesterone used in contraception and hormone therapy.7,17 Also known as Plan B, it is used as a single agent in emergency contraception, and as a hormonal contraceptive released from an intrauterine device, commonly referred to as an IUD. Some of these devices are known as Jaydess, Kyleena, and Mirena. A subdermal implant of levonorgestrel that slowly releases the hormone over a long-term period is also available.28 In addition to the above uses, levonorgestrel is used as a component of long-term combination contraceptives.8,18,20  Globally, levonorgestrel is the most commonly used emergency contraceptive. It was initially granted FDA approval in 1982 and was the first emergency contraceptive containing only progesterone, showing high levels of efficacy and a lack of estrogenic adverse effects when compared to older emergency contraceptive regimens.3,9,18 Emergency contraception Levonorgestrel, in the single-agent emergency contraceptive form, is indicated for the prevention of pregnancy after the confirmed or suspected failure of contraception methods or following unprotected intercourse. It is distributed by prescription for patients under 17, and over the counter for those above this age.18 This levonorgestrel-only form of contraception is not indicated for regular contraception and must be taken as soon as possible within 72 hours after intercourse.3,18 It has shown a lower efficacy when it is used off label within 96 hours.17 Long-term contraception or nonemergency contraception In addition to the above indication in emergency contraception, levonorgestrel is combined with other contraceptives in contraceptive formulations designed for regular use, for example with ethinyl estradiol.19 It is used in various hormone-releasing intrauterine devices for long-term contraception ranging for a duration of 3-5 years.20,21,22 Product labeling for Mirena specifically mentions that it is recommended in women who have had at least 1 child.20 A subdermal implant is also available for the prevention of pregnancy for up to 5 years.28 Hormone therapy and off-label uses Levonorgestrel is prescribed in combination with estradiol as hormone therapy during menopause to manage vasomotor symptoms and to prevent osteoporosis.26Off-label, levonorgestrel may be used to treat menorrhagia, endometrial hyperplasia, and endometriosis.17 Levonorgestrel prevents pregnancy by interfering with ovulation, fertilization, and implantation. The levonorgestrel-only containing emergency contraceptive tablet is 89% effective if it is used according to prescribing information within 72 hours after intercourse.3,7 The intrauterine and implantable devices releasing levonorgestrel are more than 99% in preventing pregnancy.14,20,21 Levonorgestrel utilized as a component of hormonal therapy helps to prevent endometrial carcinoma associated with unopposed estrogen administration.13 Mechanism of action on ovulation Oral contraceptives containing levonorgestrel suppress gonadotropins, inhibiting ovulation. Specifically, levonorgestrel binds to progesterone and androgen receptors and slows the release of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) from the hypothalamus. This process results in the suppression of the normal physiological luteinizing hormone (LH) surge that precedes ovulation. It inhibits the rupture of follicles and viable egg release from the ovaries. Levonorgestrel has been proven to be more effective when administered before ovulation.17 Mechanism of action in cervical mucus changes Similar to other levonorgestrel-containing contraceptives, the intrauterine (IUD) forms of levonorgestrel likely prevent pregnancy by increasing the thickness of cervical mucus, interfering with the movement and survival of sperm, and inducing changes in the endometrium, where a fertilized ovum is usually implanted.20,21 Levonorgestrel is reported to alter the consistency of mucus in the cervix, which interferes with sperm migration into the uterus for fertilization. Levonorgestrel is not effective after implantation has occurred.3
Dexrazoxane | DrugBank Online An antimitotic agent with immunosuppressive properties. Dexrazoxane, the (+)-enantiomorph of razoxane, provides cardioprotection against anthracycline toxicity. It appears to inhibit formation of a toxic iron-anthracycline complex. [PubChem]
Amlodipine | DrugBank Online Amlodipine, initially approved by the FDA in 1987, is a popular antihypertensive drug belonging to the group of drugs called dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers. Due to their selectivity for the peripheral blood vessels, dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers are associated with a lower incidence of myocardial depression and cardiac conduction abnormalities than other calcium channel blockers 5. Amlodipine is commonly used in the treatment of high blood pressure and angina. Amlodipine has antioxidant properties and an ability to enhance the production of nitric oxide (NO), an important vasodilator that decreases blood pressure 3. The option for single daily dosing of amlodipine is an attractive feature of this drug Label. Amlodipine may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive and antianginal agents for the treatment of the following conditions Label: • Hypertension  • Coronary artery disease • Chronic stable angina • Vasospastic angina (Prinzmetal’s or Variant angina)  • Angiographically documented coronary artery disease in patients without heart failure or an ejection fraction < 40% General pharmacodynamic effects Amlodipine has a strong affinity for cell membranes, modulating calcium influx by inhibiting selected membrane calcium channels. This drug's unique binding properties allow for its long-acting action and less frequent dosing regimen 1, Label.  Hemodynamic effects After the administration of therapeutic doses of amlodipine to patients diagnosed with hypertension, amlodipine causes vasodilation, which results in a reduction of supine and standing blood pressure. During these blood pressure reductions, there are no clinically significant changes in heart rate or plasma catecholamine levels with long-term use. Acute intravenous administration of amlodipine reduces arterial blood pressure and increases heart rate in patients with chronic stable angina, however, chronic oral administration of amlodipine in clinical studies did not cause clinically significant alterations in heart rate or blood pressures in patients diagnosed with angina and normal blood pressure. With long-term, once daily oral administration, antihypertensive effectiveness is maintained for at least 24 hours Label.  Electrophysiologic effects Amlodipine does not change sinoatrial (SA) nodal function or atrioventricular (AV) conduction in animals or humans. In patients who were diagnosed with chronic stable angina, the intravenous administration of 10 mg of amlodipine did not cause clinically significant alterations A-H and H-V conduction and sinus node recovery time after cardiac pacing. Patients administered amlodipine with concomitant beta-blockers produced similar results. In clinical trials in which amlodipine was given in combination with beta-blockers to patients diagnosed with hypertension or angina, no adverse effects on electrocardiographic parameters were noted. In clinical studies comprised of angina patients alone, amlodipine did not change electrocardiographic intervals or produce high degrees of AV block Label.  Effects on angina Amlodipine relieves the symptoms of chest pain associated with angina. In patients diagnosed with angina, daily administration of a single amlodipine dose increases total exercise time, the time to angina onset, and the time to 1 mm ST-segment depression on ECG studies, decreases anginal attack frequency, and decreases the requirement for nitroglycerin tablets 9.  Mechanism of action on blood pressure Amlodipine is considered a peripheral arterial vasodilator that exerts its action directly on vascular smooth muscle to lead to a reduction in peripheral vascular resistance, causing a decrease in blood pressure. Amlodipine is a dihydropyridine calcium antagonist (calcium ion antagonist or slow-channel blocker) that inhibits the influx of calcium ions into both vascular smooth muscle and cardiac muscle. Experimental studies imply that amlodipine binds to both dihydropyridine and nondihydropyridine binding sites, located on cell membranes. The contraction of cardiac muscle and vascular smooth muscle are dependent on the movement of extracellular calcium ions into these cells by specific ion channels. Amlodipine blocks calcium ion influx across cell membranes with selectivity. A stronger effect of amlodipine is exerted on vascular smooth muscle cells than on cardiac muscle cells Label. Direct actions of amlodipine on vascular smooth muscle result in reduced blood pressure 9.  Mechanism of action in angina The exact mechanism by which amlodipine relieves the symptoms of angina have not been fully elucidated to this date, however, the mechanism of action is likely twofold: Amlodipine has a dilating effect on peripheral arterioles, reducing the total peripheral resistance (afterload) against which the cardiac muscle functions. Since the heart rate remains stable during amlodipine administration, the reduced work of the heart reduces both myocardial energy use and oxygen requirements 9. Dilatation of the main coronary arteries and coronary arterioles, both in healthy and ischemic areas, is another possible mechanism of amlodipine reduction of blood pressure. The dilatation causes an increase in myocardial oxygen delivery in patients experiencing coronary artery spasm (Prinzmetal's or variant angina) and reduces coronary vasoconstriction caused by smoking 9. Amlodipine absorbed slowly and almost completely from the gastrointestinal tract. Peak plasma concentrations are achieved 6-12 hours after oral administration. The estimated bioavailability of amlodipine is 64-90%. Steady-state plasma amlodipine levels are achieved after 7-8 days of consecutive daily dosing. Absorption is not affected by food Label.  21 L/kg 5, 6.  About 98% 5, 6.  Amlodipine is heavily (approximately 90%) converted to inactive metabolites via hepatic breakdown with 10% of the parent compound and 60% of the metabolites found excreted in the urine. Ex vivo studies have shown that about 93% of the circulating drug is bound to plasma proteins in hypertensive patients Label. Characteristics that add to amlodipine's unique pharmacologic profile include nearly complete absorption, late-peak plasma concentrations, high bioavailability, and slow hepatic breakdown 2. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Elimination from the plasma occurs in a biphasic with a terminal elimination half-life of about 30–50 hours. Steady-state plasma levels of amlodipine are reached after 7-8 days of consecutive daily dosing Label. Amlodipine is 10% excreted as unchanged drug in the urine. Amlodipine can be initiated at normal doses in patients diagnosed with renal failure 9, Label.  The terminal elimination half-life of about 30–50 hours Label. Plasma elimination half-life is 56 hours in patients with impaired hepatic function, titrate slowly when administering this drug to patients with severe hepatic impairment Label. Total body clearance (CL) has been calculated as 7 ± 1.3 ml/min/kg (0.42 ± 0.078 L/ h/kg) in healthy volunteers 5, 6.  Elderly patients show a reduced clearance of amlodipine with an AUC (area under the curve) increase of about 40–60%, and a lower initial dose may be required Label.  Acute oral toxicity (LD50): 37 mg/kg (mouse) MSDS.  Overdose An overdose of amlodipine could result in a high degree of peripheral vasodilatation with a possibility of reflex tachycardia. Significant and prolonged hypotension leading to shock and fatal outcomes have been reported Label. Carcinogenesis, mutagenesis, impairment of fertility Rats and mice treated with amlodipine maleate in the diet on a long-term basis for up to 2 years demonstrated no evidence of a carcinogenic effect of the drug. For the mouse, the highest dose was comparable to the maximum recommended human dose of 10 mg amlodipine per day. For the rat, the highest dose was measured to be about twice the maximum recommended human dose Label. Mutagenicity studies using amlodipine maleate showed no drug-related gene or chromosomal effects Label. There was no impact on the fertility of rats given oral amlodipine maleate (males for 64 days and females for 14 days before mating) at doses up to 10 mg amlodipine/kg/day (8 times the maximum recommended human dose) Label. Use in pregnancy The safety of amlodipine in human pregnancy or lactation has not been proven. Amlodipine is therefore considered a pregnancy category C drug 9.
Rauwolfia serpentina root | DrugBank Online Rauwolfia (Rauwolfia serpentina), also spelled ravolphia, is a medicinal plant in the milkweed family. The root of the plant is ground into a powder or sold in tablets or capsules. It is a compound commonly used in Asian medicine, which includes traditional Ayurvedic medicine native to India. The active ingredients in this drug are alkaloids and about 50 have been identified through various studies, although the primary psychoactive components appear to be reserpine, rescinnamine, and deserpidine 10. This product was approved prior to Jan 1, 1982, but since, has been discontinued due to its propensity for leading to depression 8,20. Reserpine is derived from Rauwolfia serpentina, and was commonly used as an antihypertensive agent in the 1950s 12. Rauwolfia serpentina is also commonly referred to as Sarpaghanda 3. Interestingly, the hairy root component of this plant has shown a remarkable capacity to regenerate into complete Rauwolfia plants and shows survival and unaltered biosynthetic potential during storage at decreased temperatures. For this reason, various studies into biotechnological applications of this plant have been performed. Multiple studies have been done on their biosynthetic potential and numerous biotechnological methods used to study the production of pharmaceutically important alkaloids 1,2. Rauwolfia alkaloids are indicated in the treatment of hypertension 6. Rauwolfia alkaloids have been used for relief of symptoms in agitated psychotic states such as schizophrenia; however, use as antipsychotics and sedatives have been replaced with the use of more effective, safer agents 6. Reserpine is used to treat high blood pressure. It also is used to treat severe agitation in patients with mental disorders. Reserpine is in a class of medications called rauwolfia alkaloids. It works by slowing the activity of the nervous system, causing the heart rate to slow and the blood vessels to dilate 9,12. Reserpine is an adrenergic blocking agent used to treat mild to moderate hypertension via the disruption of norepinephrine vesicular storage. The antihypertensive actions of Reserpine are a result of its ability to deplete catecholamines from peripheral sympathetic nerve endings. These substances are normally involved in controlling heart rate, the work of cardiac contraction and peripheral resistance 12. Reserpine depletes brain (depression) and peripheral (PPH) noradrenaline (NA) storage sites, guanethidine depleted NA storage via blockade of reuptake 14. This agent binds and inhibits catecholamine pump on the storage vesicles in central and peripheral adrenergic neurons, thereby inhibiting the uptake of norepinephrine, dopamine serotonin into presynaptic storage vesicles. This results in catecholamines and serotonin lingering in the cytoplasm where they are destroyed by intraneuronal monoamine oxidase, thereby causing the depletion of catecholamine and serotonin stores in central and peripheral nerve terminals. Depletion results in a lack of active transmitter discharge from nerve endings upon nerve depolarization, and consequently leads to a decreased heart rate and decreased arterial blood pressure as well as sedative effects 12. Mean maximum plasma levels of plasma concentrations after 0.5 mg of Reserpine, administered as two 0.25 mg tablets or as an aqueous solution, peaked after 2.5 hours. The mean peak level was approximately 1.1 ng/ml. Bioavailability of Reserpine, has been reported to be approximately 50% 16. Reserpine is extensively bound (95%) to plasma proteins 15. Reserpine is almost completely metabolized in the body, and only about 1% is excreted as unchanged drug in the urine 15.
Hepatic metabolism accounts for less than 50% of the elimination of reserpine, with the remainder being eliminated in the faeces, and some unmetabolized reserpine and metabolites being eliminated in the urine. In man, metabolites are methylreserpate and trimethoxybenzoic acid. Metabolism may be more important with intramuscular administration 18. The elimination of reserpine and its metabolites in the feces ranges from 30% after intramuscular administration to
about 60% after oral ingestion, primarily as unmetabolized reserpine, over a 4 day period after the
Digoxin | DrugBank Online Digoxin is one of the oldest cardiovascular medications used today.5 It is a common agent used to manage atrial fibrillation and the symptoms of heart failure.7 Digoxin is classified as a cardiac glycoside and was initially approved by the FDA in 1954.25 This drug originates from the foxglove plant, also known as the Digitalis plant21, studied by William Withering, an English physician and botanist in the 1780s.8,9 Prior to this, a Welsh family, historically referred to as the Physicians of Myddvai, formulated drugs from this plant. They were one of the first to prescribe cardiac glycosides, according to ancient literature dating as early as the 1250s.9 Digoxin is indicated in the following conditions: 1) For the treatment of mild to moderate heart failure in adult patients.25 2) To increase myocardial contraction in children diagnosed with heart failure.25 3) To maintain control ventricular rate in adult patients diagnosed with chronic atrial fibrillation.25 In adults with heart failure, when it is clinically possible, digoxin should be administered in conjunction with a diuretic and an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor for optimum effects.25 Digoxin is a positive inotropic and negative chronotropic drug7, meaning that it increases the force of the heartbeat and decreases the heart rate.23 The decrease in heart rate is particularly useful in cases of atrial fibrillation, a condition characterized by a fast and irregular heartbeat.13 The relief of heart failure symptoms during digoxin therapy has been demonstrated in clinical studies by increased exercise capacity and reduced hospitalization due to heart failure and reduced heart failure-related emergency medical visits.25 Digoxin has a narrow therapeutic window.25 A note on cardiovascular risk Digoxin poses a risk of rapid ventricular response that can cause ventricular fibrillation in patients with an accessory atrioventricular (AV) pathway. Cardiac arrest as a result of ventricular fibrillation is fatal.25 An increased risk of fatal severe or complete heart block is present in individuals with pre-existing sinus node disease and AV block who take digoxin.25 Digoxin exerts hemodynamic, electrophysiologic, and neurohormonal effects on the cardiovascular system.7 It reversibly inhibits the Na-K ATPase enzyme, leading to various beneficial effects. The Na-K ATPase enzyme functions to maintain the intracellular environment by regulating the entry and exit of sodium, potassium, and calcium (indirectly). Na-K ATPase is also known as the sodium pump25. The inhibition of the sodium pump by digoxin increases intracellular sodium and increases the calcium level in the myocardial cells, causing an increased contractile force of the heart.25,11 This improves the left ventricular ejection fraction (EF), an important measure of cardiac function.7,22 Digoxin also stimulates the parasympathetic nervous system via the vagus nerve20 leading to sinoatrial (SA) and atrioventricular (AV) node effects, decreasing the heart rate.25,7 Part of the pathophysiology of heart failure includes neurohormonal activation, leading to an increase in norepinephrine. Digoxin helps to decrease norepinephrine levels through activation of the parasympathetic nervous system.7 Digoxin is approximately 70-80% absorbed in the first part of the small bowel.6 The bioavailability of an oral dose varies from 50-90%, however, oral gelatinized capsules of digoxin are reported to have a bioavailability of 100%.10 Tmax, or the time to reach the maximum concentration of digoxin was measured to be 1.0 h in one clinical study of healthy patients taking 0.25 mg of digoxin with a placebo.19 Cmax, or maximum concentration, was 1.32 ± 0.18 ng/ml−1 in the same study, and AUC (area under the curve) was 12.5 ± 2.38 ng/ml−1.19
Beclomethasone dipropionate | DrugBank Online Beclomethasone dipropionate is a second-generation synthetic corticosteroid agent [A179842] and a diester of beclomethasone, which is structurally similar to dexamethasone.10 It is a prodrug of an active metabolite beclomethasone 17-monopropionate (17-BMP)1 which acts on the glucocorticoid receptor to mediates its therapeutic action. Beclomethasone dipropionate itself posesses weak glucocorticoid receptor binding affinity and is rapidly converted into 17-BMP upon administration.1 Formulations for oral inhalation, intranasal, and topical use are available for beclomethasone dipropionate. Beclomethasone dipropionate became first available in a pressurized metered-dose inhaler in 1972 and later in a dry powder inhaler and an aqueous nasal spray.1 Due to its anti-inflammatory, antipruritic, and anti-allergy properties, beclomethasone dipropionate is used in various inflammatory conditions, such as asthma, allergic rhinitis, and dermatoses to reduce symptoms. When inhaled, it is proposed that beclomethasone dipropionate remains active locally in the lung without causing significant side effects associated with systemic corticosteroids.8 Compared to earlier corticosteroids such as dexamethasone and prednisolone, beclomethasone dipropionate is reported to be less irritating to the nasal mucosa with a longer duration of action when administered intranasally.3 Indicated for oral inhalation use in the maintenance treatment of asthma as prophylactic therapy in patients 5 years of age and older. The aerosol form of beclomethasone diproprionate is not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm.10 Indicated for intranasal use to relieve the symptoms of seasonal or perennial allergic and nonallergic (vasomotor) rhinitis and prevent the recurrence of nasal polyps following surgical removal.11 Indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years of age and older.13 Corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses include psoriasis, contact dermatitis (dermatitis venenata), atopic dermatitis (infantile eczema, allergic dermatitis), neurodermatitis (lichen simplex chronicus, lichen planus, eczema, eczematous dermatitis), intertrigo, dyshidroses (pompholyx), seborrheic dermatitis, exfoliative dermatitis, solar dermatitis, stasis dermatitis, and anogenital and senile pruritus.12 Inflammatory conditions, including asthma, dermatoses, and allergic rhinitis, involve the activation of cascades by inflammatory mediators. Inflammation is a primary defense mechanism and the homeostatic response of the immune system; however, a prolonged inflammatory response in certain disorders may lead to tissue damage, pain, and swelling. Beclomethasone dipropionate works by attenuating the inflammatory responses associated with asthma, allergic rhinitis, nasal polyps, and corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. It suppresses the actions of inflammatory cells, such as mast cells, eosinophils, basophils, lymphocytes, macrophages, and neutrophils. It also inhibits the release of inflammatory mediators, such as histamine, eicosanoids, leukotrienes, and cytokines.10 Beclomethasone dipropionate is reported to exhibit potent topical activity while possessing low systemic effects.2  Beclomethasone dipropionate is a corticosteroid drug with anti-inflammatory and vasoconstrictive effects used to treat chronic inflammatory processes such as asthma, allergic rhinitis, corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. When inhaled, it improves lung function, decreases airway hyper-reactivity, and reduces the severity of asthmatic symptoms.9 Although inhaled corticosteroids, including beclomethasone dipropionate, are reported to mainly act locally in the lungs, systemic effects such as disruption of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function, bone turnover, osteoporosis, and growth suppression may still be observed with chronic use or high dose administration. There were varying findings from clinical studies examining the effect of beclomethasone dipropionate on growth suppression in pediatric patients.9 It was shown to suppress the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in a dose-dependent manner.6 HPA axis is a central hormonal response system to stress and activation of HPA axis leads to the production of endogenous steroid hormone production.7 Long-term use of high-dose systemic corticosteroids, including those inhaled, was often associated with signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to stress conditions, such as trauma, surgery, or infections. As corticosteroids work by suppressing the immune system, there may be an increased risk for developing infections.10 Cases of Candida albicans infection of the mouth and throat have been reported with inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate therapy.8 Beclomethasone dipropionate is a corticosteroid and prodrug that is rapidly activated by hydrolysis to the active monoester, 17 monopropionate (17-BMP), which mediates anti-inflammatory actions. 17-BMP has been shown in vitro to exhibit a binding affinity for the human glucocorticoid receptor which is approximately 13 times that of dexamethasone and 25 times that of beclomethasone dipropionate.10 Upon binding of the ligand, the glucocorticoid receptors dimerize and translocate into the nucleus, where they subsequently bind to glucocorticoid response elements (GRE) on glucocorticoid-responsive genes, leading to changes in transcription. There are several proposed mechanisms for the anti-inflammatory action of corticosteroids. Corticosteroids may work by increasing the transcription of genes coding for anti-inflammatory proteins, including lipocortin-1 and interleukin-10.4 Corticosteroids were also shown to inhibit the expression of multiple genes that encode pro-inflammatory factors, such as cytokines, chemokines, and adhesion molecules, that are activated during the chronic inflammatory process.5 This is thought to be due to the direct inhibitory interaction between activated glucocorticoid receptors and activated pro-inflammatory transcription factors, such as nuclear factor-kappa B and activator protein-1.4 Chronic inflammation is often characterized by enhanced expression of these transcription factors that bind to and activate coactivator molecules, which then acetylate core histones to switch on gene transcription to further amplify the inflammatory process.5 Corticosteroids suppress the multiple inflammatory gene expression by promoting histone deacetylation, resulting in tighter coiling of DNA and reduced access of transcription factors to their binding sites.4  Following oral inhalation of 320 mcg of beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP), the Cmax was 88 pg/mL and it was reached after 0.5 at post-administration. The mean Cmax of the major and most active metabolite, beclomethasone-17-monopropionate (17-BMP), was 1419 pg/mL at 0.7 hour post-dosing.10 In another pharmacokinetic study, the AUC of BDP and 17-BMP were 6660 and 6185 pgxh/mL, respectively. The Cmax was 35356 pg/mL for BDP and 2633 pg/mL for 17-BMP, and and the median time to reach these concentrations (Tmax) was 0.2 hours. In the same study, the AUC of 17-BMP following oral and intranasal administration were 10158 and 3660 pgxh/mL, respectively. The Cmax of 17-BMP following oral and intranasal administration were 703 and 310 pg/mL, respectively, and the Tmax was 4 hours. The total bioavailability of 17-BMP following oral and intranasal administration were 41% and 44%, respectively.1 Following intravenous administration, the steady-state volume of distribution was 20 L for beclomethasone dipropionate and 424 L for the active metabolite, beclomethasone-17-monopropionate.1 Based on the findings of in vitro studies, the protein binding of the main active metabolite, beclomethasone-17-monopropionate (17-BMP), was 94-96% over the concentration range of 1000 to 5000 pg/mL.10 During absorption, beclomethasone dipropionate is undergoes rapid and extensive hydrolysis mediated by esterases CYP3A to form beclomethasone-17-monopropionate (17-BMP), beclomethasone-21-monopropionate (21-BMP), and beclomethasone (BOH). 17-BMP is the major active metabolite with the most potent anti-inflammatory activity.10 About 95% of the total beclomethasone dipropionate administered via oral inhalation undergoes presystemic conversion to form 17-BMP in the lung.1 Hover over products below to view reaction partners Regardless of the route of administration, beclomethasone dipropionate and its metabolites are predominantly excreted in the feces, with less than 10% of the drug and its metabolites being excreted in the urine.10
11 Following intravenous administration, the half life of beclomethasone dipropionate was 0.5 hours while the half life of the active metabolite 17-BMP was 2.7 hours. Following oral and intranasal administration, the half life of 17-BMP was 8.8 and 5.7 hours, respectively.1 Following intravenous administration, the clearance of beclomethasone dipropionate and 17-BMP were 150 L/h and 120 L/h, respectively.1 The oral LD50 in rats is >3750 mg/kg.MSDS  The acute toxicity of beclometasone dipropionate is low. The only harmful effect that follows inhalation of large amounts of the drug over a short period of time is suppression of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Chronic: The excessive use of beclometasone dipropionate over a long period could lead to adrenal suppression. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Taub, D., Wendler, N.L. and Slates, H.L.; US.Patent 3,345,387; October 3, 1967; assigned
Carisoprodol | DrugBank Online Originally approved by the FDA in 1959 Label, carisoprodol is a centrally acting muscle relaxant used in painful musculoskeletal conditions in conjunction with physical therapy and other medications 4. This drug is available by itself in an oral tablet or combined with aspirin, or in a fixed-dose combination with both aspirin and codeine Label,16,17. In January 2012, this drug was classified as a Schedule IV substance under the controlled substances act in several US states due to alarming rates of abuse 5,8 despite having a low potential for abuse in addition to a low risk of dependence 13. Carisoprodol is indicated for the relief of discomfort related to acute, painful musculoskeletal conditions Label. Important limitations of use Label: • Should only be used for acute treatment periods up to two or three weeks  • Adequate evidence of effectiveness for more prolonged use has not been established  • Not recommended in pediatric patients less than 16 years of age Carisoprodol is a centrally acting skeletal muscle relaxant that does not act directly on skeletal muscle but acts directly on the central nervous system (CNS). This drug relieves the painful effects of muscle spasm 12,19. A metabolite of carisoprodol, meprobamate, possesses both anxiolytic and sedative properties Label. Clinical studies have shown that this drug causes impairment of psychomotor performance in neuropsychological tests 5,10. The mechanism of action of carisoprodol in relieving discomfort associated with acute painful musculoskeletal conditions has not been confirmed.
In studies using animal models, the muscle relaxation that is induced by carisoprodol is associated with a change in the interneuronal activity of the spinal cord and of the descending reticular formation, located in the brain Label.  The abuse potential of this drug is attributed to its ability to alter GABAA function 8. This drug has been shown to modulate a variety of GABAA receptor subunits 5. GABAA receptor modulation can lead to anxiolysis due to inhibitory effects on neurotransmission 11.  The absolute bioavailability of carisoprodol has not yet been established. The mean time to peak plasma concentrations (Tmax) of this drug was about 1.5-2 hours in clinical studies Label. Co-administration of a fatty meal with carisoprodol (350 mg tablet) had no impact on carisoprodol pharmacokinetics Label.  0.93 to 1.3 L/kg, according to 4 different clinical studies 6.  Approximately 60% 14.  The main pathway of carisoprodol is liver metabolism is by the cytochrome enzyme CYP2C19 to form meprobamate. This enzyme exhibits genetic polymorphism, which may affect the metabolism of this drug Label.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Carisoprodol is eliminated by the kidneys as well as other routes. The half-life of meprobamate is approximately 10 hours Label. The terminal half-life is approximately 2 hours Label.  Following an oral dose of carisoprodol, the oral clearance (Cl/F) was 39.52 ± 16.83 L/hour 15.  LD50 values The LD50 values of carisoprodol for rats are 450 mg/kg for intravenous (IV) and intraperitoneal injection, and 1,320 mg/kg for gavage dosing. In mice, the LD50 values are 165 mg/kg for intravenous injection, 980 mg/kg for intraperitoneal injection, and 2,340 mg/kg for gavage dosing. The LD50 value for rabbits given carisoprodol by intravenous injection is 124 mg/kg 18. Overdose An overdose of carisoprodol leads to CNS depression, and in severe cases, induction of a coma. Shock, depression of respiratory function, seizures and death have also been reported in rare cases. Several symptoms may be associated with carisoprodol overdose, such as horizontal and vertical nystagmus, blurred vision, mydriasis, mild tachycardia and hypotension, respiratory depression, euphoria, CNS stimulation, muscular incoordination, and/or rigidity, confusion, headache, hallucinations, and dystonic reactions. Alcohol or other CNS depressants or psychotropic agents can exert additive effects on carisoprodol even when one of the agents has been ingested at the normal, therapeutic dose. Fatal accidental and non-accidental overdoses have both been reported with carisoprodol ingestion alone or ingestion of carisoprodol in combination with alcohol or psychotropic drugs 15.  A note on dependence and withdrawal In the postmarketing reports after carisoprodol use, cases of dependence, withdrawal, and abuse have been reported with long-term use. The majority of dependence and withdrawal cases, as well as abuse, have occurred in patients with a history of addiction or who have used this drug in combination with other drugs having abuse potential. However, multiple post-marketing adverse event reports have been made of carisodopril-associated abuse when used without other drugs possessing abuse potential. Withdrawal symptoms have been observed and reported following sudden abrupt cessation after long-term carisodoprol use. To reduce the chance of carisodopril dependence, withdrawal, or abuse, carisodopril should be used with caution in addiction-prone patients and in patients taking other CNS depressants including alcohol. This drug should not be taken for longer than 2 to 3 weeks for symptomatic relief of acute musculoskeletal discomfort Label. Use in pregnancy This drug has been classified as Pregnancy Category C. There are no clinical trial data on the use of carisoprodol during human pregnancy. Animal studies show that carisoprodol crosses the placenta and leads to adverse effects on fetal growth and postnatal survival. In postmarketing reports, the main metabolite, meprobamate, has not demonstrated a consistent association between maternal use and an increased risk for specific congenital malformations Label. Use in nursing Limited data in humans demonstrate that this is found excreted in breast milk and may reach concentrations in breast milk of 2-4 times the maternal plasma concentrations Label. It is therefore advisable to exercise caution when this drug is used during breastfeeding Label. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Berger, F.M. and Ludwig, B.J.; U S . Patent 2,937,119; May 17,1960; assigned to Carter
Progesterone | DrugBank Online Progesterone is a hormone that occurs naturally in females, and is essential for endometrial receptivity, embryo implantation, and the successful establishment of pregnancy. A low progesterone concentration or an insufficient response to progesterone can cause infertility and pregnancy loss 7. Progesterone is used in various contraceptive preparations to prevent ovulation and fertilization 15, 8 as well as in other formulations to promote and support pregnancy. Please see Medroxyprogesterone acetate, Megestrol acetate, Dydrogesterone and Hydroxyprogesterone entries for information on various other forms of progesterone. Pharmaceutical progesterone is made from a plant source as a starting material and is chemically identical to progesterone of human ovarian origin Label. Progesterone is available in gelatinized capsule form, vaginal gel form, tablet form, vaginal insert form, and injection form, all used for various purposes Label,20,22,21,23. Gelatinized capsules The gelatinized capsules are indicated for use in the prevention of endometrial hyperplasia in non-hysterectomized postmenopausal women who are receiving conjugated estrogens tablets. They are also indicated for use in secondary amenorrhea Label.  Vaginal gel Progesterone gel (8%) is indicated as progesterone supplementation or replacement as part of an Assisted Reproductive Technology (“ART”) treatment for infertile women with progesterone deficiency. The lower concentration progesterone gel (4%) is used in the treatment of secondary amenorrhea, with the use of the 8% concentration if there is no therapeutic response to the 4% gel 20. Vaginal insert This form is indicated to support embryo implantation and early pregnancy by supplementation of corpus luteal function as part of an Assisted Reproductive Technology (ART) treatment program for infertile women 21. Injection (intramuscular) This drug is indicated in amenorrhea and abnormal uterine bleeding due to hormonal imbalance in the absence of organic pathology, such as submucous fibroids or uterine cancer 23.  Tablets, contraceptive The tablet form of progesterone in contraceptive formulations is indicated for the prevention of pregnancy 22.  Progesterone, depending on concentration and dosage form, and timing of exposure may have several pharmacodynamic effects. These actions, according, to various preparations, are listed below: General effects Progesterone is the main hormone of the corpus luteum and the placenta. It acts on the uterus by changing the proliferative phase to the secretory phase of the endometrium (inner mucous lining of the uterus). This hormone, stimulated by a hormone called luteinizing hormone (LH) is the main hormone during the secretory phase to prepare the corpus luteum and the endometrium for implantation of a fertilized ovum. As the luteal phase concludes, the progesterone hormone sends negative feedback to the anterior pituitary gland in the brain to decrease FSH (follicle stimulating hormone) and LH (luteinizing hormone) levels. This prevents ovulation and maturation of oocytes (immature egg cells). The endometrium then prepares for pregnancy by increasing its vascularity (blood vessels) and stimulating mucous secretion. This process occurs by progesterone stimulating the endometrium to decrease endometrial proliferation, leading to a decreased uterine lining thickness, developing more complex uterine glands, collecting energy in the form of glycogen, and providing more uterine blood vessel surface area suitable for supporting a growing embryo. As opposed to cervical mucous changes observed during the proliferative phase and ovulation, progesterone decreases and thickens the cervical mucus, rendering it less elastic. This change occurs because the fertilization time period has passed, and a specific consistency of mucous amenable to sperm entry is no longer required 16. Gelatinized capsules Progesterone capsules are an oral dosage form of micronized progesterone which, chemically identical to progesterone of ovarian origin. Progesterone capsules have all the properties of endogenous progesterone with induction of a secretory phase endometrium with gestagenic, antiestrogenic, slightly antiandrogenic and anti-aldosterone effects 24. Progesterone opposes the effects of estrogen on the uterus, and is beneficial in women with unopposed estrogen exposure, which carries an increased risk of malignancy 24. Vaginal gel and vaginal insert The gel preparation mimics the effects of naturally occurring progesterone. In the presence of adequate levels of estrogen, progesterone converts a proliferative endometrium into secretory endometrium. This means that the endometrium changes from a growing and thickening stage into a subsequent preparation stage for pregnancy, which involves further preparatory changes. Progesterone is necessary for the development of decidual tissue (specialized tissue amenable to supporting a possible pregnancy). Progesterone is required to increase endometrial receptivity for the implantation of a fertilized embryo. Once an embryo is implanted, progesterone helps to maintain the pregnancy 20.  Injection (intramuscular) Intramuscularly injected progesterone increases serum progesterone and aids in the prevention of endometrial tissue overgrowth due to unopposed estrogen (which leads to abnormal uterine bleeding and sometimes uterine cancer) 18, 25. In the absence or deficiency of progesterone, the endometrium continually proliferates, eventually outgrowing its limited blood supply, shedding incompletely, and leading to abnormal and/or profuse bleeding as well as malignancy 18. Tablets, contraceptive Progesterone-only contraceptive tablets prevent conception by suppressing ovulation in about half of users, causing a thickening of cervical mucus to inhibit sperm movement, lowering the midcycle LH and FSH hormone peaks, slowing the movement of the ovum through the fallopian tubes, and causing secretory changes in the endometrium as described above 22. Progesterone binds and activates its nuclear receptor, PR, which plays an important part in the signaling of stimuli that maintain the endometrium during its preparation for pregnancy. Progesterone receptor (PR) is a member of the nuclear/steroid hormone receptor (SHR) family of ligand-dependent transcription factors that is expressed primarily in female reproductive tissue as well as the central nervous system. As a result of its binding its associated steroid hormone, progesterone, the progesterone receptor (PR) modulates the expression of genes that regulate the development, differentiation, and proliferation of target tissues 14. In humans, PR is found to be highly expressed in the stromal (connective tissue) cells during the secretory phase and during pregnancy 10.  Progesterone may prevent pregnancy by changing the consistency of cervical mucus to be unfavorable for sperm penetration, and by inhibiting follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), which normally causes ovulation. With perfect use, the first-year failure rate for progestin-only oral contraceptives is approximately 0.5%. The typical failure rate, however, is estimated to be approximately 5%, due to late or missed pills 22. Oral micronized capsules Following oral administration of progesterone in the micronized soft-gelatin capsule formulation, peak serum concentration was achieved in the first 3 hours. The absolute bioavailability of micronized progesterone is unknown at this time. In postmenopausal women, serum progesterone concentration increased in a dose-proportional and linear fashion after multiple doses of progesterone capsules, ranging from 100 mg/day to 300 mg/day Label.  IM administration After intramuscular (IM) administration of 10 mg of progesterone in oil, the maximum plasma concentrations were achieved in about 8 hours post-injection and plasma concentrations stayed above baseline for approximately 24 hours post-injection. Injections of 10, 25, and 50 mg lead to geometric mean values for maximum plasma concentration (CMAX) of 7, 28, and 50 ng/mL, respectively 25. Progesterone administered by the intramuscular (IM) route avoids significant first-pass hepatic metabolism. As a result, endometrial tissue concentrations of progesterone achieved with IM administration are higher when compared with oral administration. Despite this, the highest concentrations of progesterone in endometrial tissue are reached with vaginal administration 11.  Note on oral contraceptive tablet absorption Serum progestin levels peak about 2 hours after oral administration of progesterone-only contraceptive tablets, followed by rapid distribution and elimination. By 24 hours after drug administration, serum levels remain near the baseline, making efficacy dependent upon strict adherence to the dosing schedule. Large variations in serum progesterone levels occur among individuals. Progestin-only administration leads to lower steady-state serum progestin levels and a shorter elimination half-life than concurrent administration with estrogens 22.  When administered vaginally, progesterone is well absorbed by uterine endometrial tissue, and a small percentage is distributed into the systemic circulation.
Sorafenib | DrugBank Online Sorafenib (rINN), marketed as Nexavar by Bayer, is a drug approved for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma (primary kidney cancer). It has also received "Fast Track" designation by the FDA for the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (primary liver cancer), and has since performed well in Phase III trials.
Eszopiclone | DrugBank Online Eszopiclone, marketed by Sepracor under the brand-name Lunesta, is a nonbenzodiazepine hypnotic drug used to treat insomnia. It is the active stereoisomer of zopiclone, belonging to the class of drugs known as cyclopyrrolones.1,12 Cyclopyrrolone drugs demonstrate high efficacy and low toxicity9, offering a safer alternative to other drugs used for insomnia. One major benefit of eszopiclone is that it is approved by the FDA for the long-term treatment of insomnia. This sets it apart from many other hypnotic sedatives, which are generally approved only for the relief of short-term (6-8 weeks) insomnia. Eszopiclone was initially approved by the FDA in 2004.10 Eszopiclone is indicated for the treatment of insomnia.10 Eszopiclone rapidly induces sleep and decreases sleep latency. It also aids in the maintenance of sleep, preventing frequent awakenings.3,4,10 This drug has shown anticonvulsant and muscle relaxant properties in animals but is used in humans for its sedating effects.9 Eszopiclone is a central nervous system depressant with various effects. These include changes in alertness and motor coordination and the risk of next morning impairment, increasing with the amount of eszopiclone administered. Exercise caution and advise against driving a motor vehicle or activities that require full mental alertness the next morning.10 Complex sleep behaviors may result from eszopiclone use. Eszopiclone should be discontinued in these cases.15 Avoid the use of alcohol and other CNS depressants when eszopiclone is administered. Advise patients to skip the eszopiclone dose if alcohol has been consumed before bed or during the evening. Use the smallest dose of eszopiclone as possible, especially in elderly patients, who may experience exaggerated drug effects. Though the potential for dependence and abuse with eszopiclone is lower than for other hypnotic drugs, this drug has been abused and is known to cause dependence.14 The exact mechanism of action of eszopiclone is unknown at this time but is thought to occur via binding with the GABA receptor complexes at binding sites located near benzodiazepine receptors, possibly explaining its hypnotic and sedative effects.3,10 It has particular affinity for GABA-A (or GABAA) receptor subunits 1, 3 and 5.5,6,7 Eszopiclone increases GABA-A channel currents significantly.5 GABA-A channels are major inhibitory channels that cause CNS depression when their receptors are activated.8 Eszopiclone is rapidly absorbed and the peak concentration is reached within about 1 hour after oral administration.3,10 The mean AUC after a 3 mg dose of eszopiclone was 278 ng/mL × h.1 The consumption of a high-fat has been shown to slow absorption. Steady-state concentrations of eszopiclone are reached within 24-48 hours.4 The volume of distribution of eszopiclone is estimated at 89.9L11 This drug is 52-59% bound to plasma proteins.10 Following oral administration, eszopiclone is extensively biotransformed and the major metabolites are S-desmethylzopiclone and zopiclone-N-oxide, which are largely inactive.2. The enzymes involved in the metabolism of eszopiclone are CYP3A (the primary metabolizing enzyme), CYP2C8, and CYP2E1.2
Ceruletide | DrugBank Online Caerulein is a specific decapeptide similar in action and composition to the natural gastrointestinal peptide hormone cholecystokinin. It exerts stimulatory effects on the gastric, biliary, and pancreatic secretion, as well as on certain smooth muscles. Caerulein is used in the treatment of paralytic ileus and as diagnostic aid in pancreatic malfunction. Caerulein is a specific decapeptide similar in action and composition to the natural gastrointestinal peptide hormone cholecystokinin that stimulates gastric, biliary, and pancreatic secretion. It also exerts stimulatory actions on certain smooth muscles.  Caerulein acts according to its similarity to the natural gastrointestinal peptide hormone cholecystokinin. Cholecystokinin is a peptide hormone of the gastrointestinal system responsible for stimulating the digestion of fat and protein. Cholecystokinin is secreted by the duodenum, the first segment of the small intestine. There it binds to CCK receptors, activating them and causing downstream effects. Specifically, it results in the release of digestive enzymes and bile from the pancreas and gall bladder, respectively. It also acts as a hunger suppresant. Cholecystokinin is secreted by the duodenum when fat- or protein-rich chyme leaves the stomach and enters the duodenum. The hormone acts on the pancreas to stimulate the secretion of the enzymes lipase, amylase, trypsin, and chymotrypsin. Together these pancreatic enzymes catalyze the digestion of fat and protein. Cholecystokinin also stimulates both the contraction of the gall bladder, and the relaxtion of the Sphincter of Oddi (Glisson's Sphinctor), which delivers, (not secretes) bile into the small intestine. Bile salts serve to emulsify fats, thereby increasing the effectiveness with which enzymes can digest them. Absorbed following intravenous administration. Bernardi, L., Bosisio, G., De Castiglione, R. and Goffredo, O. ;U.S. Patent 3,472,832; Oct. 14,
Carbachol | DrugBank Online A slowly hydrolyzed cholinergic agonist that acts at both muscarinic and nicotinic receptors. Primarily used in the treatment of glaucoma, but is also used during ophthalmic surgery. Carbachol is a potent cholinergic (parasympathomimetic) agent which produces constriction of the iris and ciliary body resulting in reduction in intraocular pressure. The exact mechanism by which carbachol lowers intraocular pressure is not precisely known. In the cat and rat, carbachol is well-known for its ability to induce rapid eye movement (REM) sleep when microinjected into the pontine reticular formation by activating the postsynaptic muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs).  Carbachol is a parasympathomimetic that stimulates both muscarinic and nicotinic receptors. In topical ocular and intraocular administration its principal effects are miosis and increased aqueous humour outflow. Carbachol displays limited absorption from the gastrointestinal tract and it is not reported to cross the blood-brain barrier. Oral, mouse: LD50 = 15 mg/kg; Oral, rat: LD50 = 40 mg/kg. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Major, R.T. and Bonnett, H.T.; U.S. Patent 2,374,367; April 24,1945; assigned to Merck &
Methylphenidate | DrugBank Online Methylphenidate is a central nervous system stimulant used most commonly in the treatment of Attention-Deficit/Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) and for narcolepsy. Also known as the marketed products Ritalin, Concerta, or Biphentin, methylphenidate is used with other treatment modalities (psychological, educational, cognitive behaviour therapy, etc) to improve the following group of developmentally inappropriate symptoms associated with ADHD: moderate-to-severe distractibility, short attention span, hyperactivity, emotional lability, and impulsivity. Long-acting formulations of psychostimulants such as methylphenidate, Dextroamphetamine, and Lisdexamfetamine are considered the most effective and widely used treatment for ADHD, and are considered first-line options for children, adolescents, and adults as recommended by CADDRA (Canadian ADHD Resource Alliance). 12 CADDRA recommends the use of methylphenidate due to long term studies, of over twenty years in duration, which show methylphenidate is safe and effective.  While its exact mechanism is unclear, methylphenidate (MPH) has been shown to act as a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor (NDRI), thereby increasing the presence of these neurotransmitters in the extraneuronal space and prolonging their action.6 There is a dose-related effect of psychostimulants on receptor stimulation, where higher doses are shown to increase norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (DA) efflux throughout the brain which can result in impaired cognition and locomotor-activating effects. In contrast, low doses are found to selectively activate NE and DA neurotransmission within the prefrontal cortex which is an area of the brain thought to play a prominent role in ADHD pathophysiology, thereby improving clinical efficacy and preventing side effects.8 The lower doses used to treat ADHD are not associated with the locomotor-activating effects associated with higher doses and instead reduce movement, impulsivity, and increase cognitive function including sustained attention and working memory.6,7 Methylphenidate's beneficial effects in sustaining attention have also been shown to be mediated by alpha-1 adrenergic receptor activity.9 Clinical findings have shown that children with ADHD have an abnormality in the dopamine transporter gene (DAT1), the D4 receptor gene (DRD-4), and/or the D2 receptor gene that may be at least partly overcome by the dopaminergic effects of methylphenidate, suggesting a possible mode of action.15 When provided as Biphentin®, methylphenidate is released through a multi-layer release delivery system (MLRTM) where 40% of the dose is provided as an immediate release and 60% is provided through a gradual release. Biphentin was designed to be an alternative to separate doses of immediate-release (IR) methylphenidate by providing a biphasic concentration-time profile when given as a single dose. The MLRTM release system allows for a sustained effect for 10-12 hours, allowing for once-daily dosing that covers the major times that ADHD impairment might occur (such as school, homework periods, during the work day, etc). When provided as Concerta®, methylphenidate is released through the patented Osmotic Controlled-Release Oral Delivery (OROS) system where 22% of the dose is provided as an immediate release and 78% is provided through a gradual release.1 OROS is comprised of an osmotically active trilayer core surrounded by a semipermeable membrane with an immediate-release drug overcoat. Within an aqueous environment, such as the stomach, the drug overcoat, which consists of 22% of the dose, dissolves within one hour, providing an initial immediate-release formulation of methylphenidate. Water then permeates through the membrane into the tablet core where the osmotically active polymer excipients expand, allowing methylphenidate to release slowly through the orifice over a period of 6-7 hours. Concerta also provides a sustained 10-12 hour effect, allowing for once-daily dosing. Methylphenidate contains a blackbox warning stating that CNS stimulants, including methylphenidate-containing products and amphetamines, have a high potential for abuse and dependence. This abuse potential is likely related to the effects associated with higher doses of methylphenidate, which induce surface expression of the dopamine transporter (DAT).10 In particular, increased dopamine in key brain areas is associated with the reinforcing and addictive properties of psychostimulants such as methylphenidate, and even amplifies the potency and reinforcing effects of other drugs of abuse such as amphetamines, making ADHD sufferers more susceptible to their addictive effects.11 Concerns about abuse potential have spurred research into medications with fewer effects on DAT and the use of non-stimulant ADHD medications including Atomoxetine and Guanfacine. Methylphenidate is indicated for the treatment of Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in patients 6 years of age and older and for the treatment of narcolepsy. Methylphenidate is a racemic mixture comprised of the d- and l-isomers. The d-isomer is more pharmacologically active than the l-isomer. Radioligand binding studies demonstrate that binding of methylphenidate in the brain is localized to dopamine-rich areas, in particular in the prefrontal cortex which has been demonstrated to play a prominent role in ADHD pathophysiology.8 In a number of animal models, methylphenidate enhances locomotor activity and induces stereotypic behaviours.  While its exact mechanism is unclear, methylphenidate (MPH) has been shown to act as a norepinephrine and dopamine reuptake inhibitor (NDRI), thereby increasing the presence of these neurotransmitters in the extraneuronal space and prolonging their action.6 There is a dose-related effect of psychostimulants on receptor stimulation, where higher doses are shown to increase norepinephrine (NE) and dopamine (DA) efflux throughout the brain which can result in impaired cognition and locomotor-activating effects. In contrast, low doses are found to selectively activate NE and DE neurotransmission within the prefrontal cortex which is an area of the brain thought to play a prominent role in ADHD pathophysiology, thereby improving clinical efficacy and preventing side effects.8 The lower doses used to treat ADHD are not associated with the locomotor-activating effects associated with higher doses and instead reduce movement, impulsivity, and increase cognitive function including sustained attention and working memory.6,7 Methylphenidate's beneficial effects in sustaining attention have also been shown to be mediated by alpha-1 adrenergic receptor activity.9. Clinical findings have shown that children with ADHD have an abnormality in the dopamine transporter gene (DAT1), the D4 receptor gene (DRD-4), and/or the D2 receptor gene that may be at least partly overcome by the dopaminergic effects of methylphenidate, suggesting a possible mode of action.15 Concerta®: Methylphenidate is readily absorbed. Following oral administration of Concerta, plasma methylhphenidate concentrations reach an initial maximum at about 1 hour followed by gradual ascending concentrations over the next 5-9 hours. Mean times to reach peak plasma concentrations across all doses of Concerta occurred between 6-10 hours. Once daily dosing minimizes the fluctuations between peak and trough concentrations associated with multiple doses of immediate-release methylphenidate treatments.15 Depending on the doses provided, Cmax was found to range from 6.0-15.0ng/mL, Tmax ranged from 8.1-9.4h, and AUC ranged from 50.4-121.5 ng·h/mL in children.15 When provided as Concerta®, methylphenidate is released through the patented Osmotic Controlled-Release Oral Delivery (OROS) system where 22% of the dose is provided as an immediate release and 78% is provided through a gradual release.1 OROS is comprised of an osmotically active trilayer core surrounded by a semipermeable membrane with an immediate-release drug overcoat. Within an aqueous environment, such as the stomach, the drug overcoat, which consists of 22% of the dose, dissolves within one hour, providing an initial immediate-release formulation of methylphenidate. Water then permeates through the membrane into the tablet core where the osmotically active polymer excipients expand, allowing methylphenidate to release slowly through the orifice over a period of 6-7 hours. Concerta also provides a sustained 10-12 hour effect, allowing for once-daily dosing. Biphentin®: Methylphenidate is rapidly and extensively absorbed following oral administration, with peak blood levels obtained in 1-3 hours.16 When provided as Biphentin®, methylphenidate is released through a multi-layer release delivery system (MLRTM) where 40% of the dose is provided as an immediate release and 60% is provided through a gradual release. Biphentin was designed to be an alternative to separate doses of immediate-release (IR) methylphenidate by providing a biphasic concentration-time profile when given as a single dose. The MLRTM release system allows for a sustained effect for 10-12 hours, allowing for once-daily dosing that covers the major times that ADHD impairment might occur (such as school, homework periods, during the workday, etc). Methylphenidate (immediate release): Methylphenidate hydrochloride is rapidly and extensively absorbed from the tablets following oral administration; however, owing to extensive first-pass metabolism, bioavailability is low (approx. 30%) and large individual differences exist (11-52%). In one study, the administration of methylphenidate hydrochloride with food accelerated absorption but had no effect on the amount absorbed. Peak plasma concentrations of 10.8 and 7.8 ng/mL were observed, on average, 2 hours after administration of 0.30 mg/kg in children and adults, respectively. Peak plasma concentrations showed marked variability between subjects. Both the area under the concentration-time curve (AUC), and the peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) showed dose-proportionality.17 Concerta: Plasma methylphenidate concentrations in adults decline bi-exponentially
following oral administration.15 Biphentin: The apparent distribution volume of methylphenidate in children is approximately 20 L/kg, with
substantial variability (11 to 33 L/kg).16 Methylphenidate (immediate release): The apparent distribution volume of methylphenidate in children was approximately 20 L/kg, with substantial variability (11-33 L/kg). The volume of distribution after an intravenous dose (Vss) is 2.23 L/kg for the racemate in healthy adult volunteers.17 Concerta: In humans, 15 ± 5% of methylphenidate in the blood is bound to plasma proteins. 15 Biphentin: In blood, methylphenidate and its metabolites are distributed between plasma (57%) and
erythrocytes (43%). Methylphenidate and its metabolites exhibit low plasma protein binding
Hyoscyamine | DrugBank Online Hyoscyamine is a chemical compound, a tropane alkaloid it is the levo-isomer to atropine. It is a secondary metabolite of some plants, particularly henbane (Hyoscamus niger.)
Zolpidem | DrugBank Online Zolpidem, also known as Ambien, is a hypnotic drug that was initially approved by the FDA in 1992 Label. Zolpidem improves sleep in patients with insomnia. It is aimed for use in patients with difficulties initiating sleep. This drug decreases the time to fall asleep (sleep latency), increases the duration of sleep, and decreases the number of awakenings during sleep in patients with temporary (transient) insomnia. It is available in both immediate acting and extended release forms Label, 17.  Its tolerability profile is favorable when administered according to the manufacturer’s instructions, with a low risk of drug withdrawal, drug dependence, and drug tolerance 6. In addition, zolpidem improves sleep quality in patients suffering from chronic insomnia and can show mild muscle relaxant properties 15. Research also shows that zolpidem is rapid and effective in restoring brain function for patients in a vegetative state following brain injury. This drug has the propensity to completely or partially reverse the abnormal metabolism of damaged brain cells after injury 15, 9. This drug is indicated for the short-term treatment of insomnia in adults characterized by difficulties with sleep initiation Label.  Effects on the central nervous system (CNS) This drug has CNS depressant effects, which may include somnolence, decreased alertness, sedation, drowsiness, dizziness, and other changes in psychomotor function Label. Due to the above effects, the FDA has recommended an initial dose of zolpidem (immediate-acting) is a single dose of 5 mg for women and a single dose of 5 or 10 mg for men, immediately before bedtime with at least 7-8 hours remaining before the planned time of awakening 14. Refer to product labeling for detailed information 17, Label.  Effects on memory Controlled studies in adults using objective measures of memory demonstrated no significant evidence of next-day memory impairment after the administration of zolpidem. On the contrary, in a clinical study involving the administration of zolpidem doses of 10 and 20 mg, a marked reduction in a next-morning recall of information relayed to subjects during peak drug effect (90 minutes after dosing) was observed. These subjects experienced a condition known as anterograde amnesia. Subjective evidence from adverse event data has suggested that anterograde amnesia may occur after zolpidem administration, mainly at doses above 10 mg Label. Effects on psychomotor function This drug may cause decreased psychomotor performance. Additive psychomotor effects may occur with other drugs that cause depression of psychomotor function, including alcohol Label. Patients taking zolpidem should be cautioned against participating in hazardous activities or occupations requiring complete mental alertness or motor coordination, including operating machinery or driving a motor vehicle after ingesting the drug. Potential impairment of the performance of the above types of activities may also occur the day after zolpidem ingestion, especially at higher doses and ingestion of the extended-release form Label, 17.  Effects on insomnia and sleep stages Evidence suggests that this drug is associated with minimal rebound insomnia. During clinical trials with patients using zolpidem on an ‘as-needed’ basis, zolpidem use resulted in global improvements in sleep 6. Zolpidem has been demonstrated to decrease sleep latency (the time it takes to fall asleep) for up to 35 days in controlled clinical studies Label. In studies measuring the percentage of sleep time spent in each sleep stage, zolpidem has primarily been shown to preserve sleep stages. Sleep time spent in stages 3 and 4 (deep sleep) was measured as similar to placebo with only minor and inconsistent changes in REM (paradoxical) sleep at the recommended dose Label. Next-day residual effects In 2013, the FDA issued a statement warning that patients who take zolpidem extended-release (Ambien CR)―either 6.25 mg or 12.5 mg―should not drive or participate in other activities requiring full mental alertness the day after taking the drug, due to the fact that zolpidem concentrations can remain increased the next day, and impair the ability to perform these activities 14, 17. Patients may decrease their risk of next-morning impairment by taking the lowest dose of their insomnia medicine that treats their symptoms, according to the FDA 16. Specific dosing recommendations for both men and women are included in this statement 14. This information is also available on product labeling 17, Label.  Rebound effects There was no polysomnographic (objective) evidence of rebound insomnia at normal doses, in studies evaluating sleep on the nights following discontinuation of zolpidem tartrate. Subjective evidence of impaired sleep in the elderly on the first post-treatment night was observed at doses higher than the recommended 5mg dose for elderly patients Label.  Zolpidem, the active moiety of zolpidem tartrate, is a hypnotic substance with a chemical structure that is not related to the structure benzodiazepines, barbiturates, pyrrolopyrazines, pyrazolopyrimidines or other drugs exerting hypnotic effects. It interacts with a GABA-BZ receptor complex and shares various pharmacological properties with the benzodiazepine class of drugs Label. Subunit binding of the GABAA receptor chloride channel macromolecular complex is thought to lead to the sedative, anticonvulsant, anxiolytic, and myorelaxant drug effects of zolpidem. The main regulatory site of the GABAA receptor complex can be found on its alpha (α) subunit and is called the benzodiazepine (BZ) or omega (ω) receptor. At least three different subtypes of the (ω) receptor have been identified to this date Label. In contrast to benzodiazepine drugs, which are found to modulate all benzodiazepine receptor subtypes in a non-selective fashion, zolpidem binds the (BZ1) receptor specifically with a potent affinity for the alpha 1/alpha 5 subunits (in vitro) Label. More recent studies suggest that zolpidem binds primarily to the alpha 1, 2, and 3 subunits of the GABA receptor 11, 12, 13, and not the alpha 5 subunit.  The (BZ1) receptor is found primarily on the Lamina IV of the brain sensorimotor cortical regions, substantia nigra (pars reticulata), cerebellum molecular layer, olfactory bulb, ventral thalamic complex, pons, inferior colliculus, and globus pallidus. Specific and selective binding of zolpidem on the (BZ1) receptor is not considered absolute, however, this binding could potentially explain the relative lack of myorelaxant and anticonvulsant activity in animal studies in addition to the preservation of deep sleep (stages 3 and 4) in human studies of zolpidem at hypnotic doses Label.  Zolpidem is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. In a single-dose crossover study in 45 healthy subjects given 5 and 10 mg zolpidem tartrate tablets, the average peak zolpidem concentrations (Cmax) were 59 and 121 ng/mL, respectively, occurring at a mean time (Tmax) of 1.6 hours for both doses Label.  0.54 to 0.68 L/kg (in humans) 7. In patients with long term renal insufficiency who were not yet on hemodialysis, the volume of distribution was found to increase significantly, AUC increased by 60%, and half-life nearly doubled 7. 92.5 ± 0.1% Label Zolpidem is metabolized to three pharmacologically by various hepatic cytochrome P450 (CYP) isoenzymes, mainly CYP3A4, but also CYP1A2 and CYP2C9 7, 10.
Bendroflumethiazide | DrugBank Online A thiazide diuretic with actions and uses similar to those of hydrochlorothiazide. It has been used in the treatment of familial hyperkalemia, hypertension, edema, and urinary tract disorders. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p810) For the treatment of high blood pressure and management of edema related to heart failure. Bendroflumethiazide, a thiazide diuretic, removes excess water from the body by increasing how often you urinate (pass water) and also widens the blood vessels which helps to reduce blood pressure. It inhibits Na+/Cl- reabsorption from the distal convoluted tubules in the kidneys. Thiazides also cause loss of potassium and an increase in serum uric acid. Thiazides are often used to treat hypertension, but their hypotensive effects are not necessarily due to their diuretic activity. Thiazides have been shown to prevent hypertension-related morbidity and mortality although the mechanism is not fully understood. Thiazides cause vasodilation by activating calcium-activated potassium channels (large conductance) in vascular smooth muscles and inhibiting various carbonic anhydrases in vascular tissue. As a diuretic, bendroflumethiazide inhibits active chloride reabsorption at the early distal tubule via the Na-Cl cotransporter, resulting in an increase in the excretion of sodium, chloride, and water. Thiazides like bendroflumethiazide also inhibit sodium ion transport across the renal tubular epithelium through binding to the thiazide sensitive sodium-chloride transporter. This results in an increase in potassium excretion via the sodium-potassium exchange mechanism. The antihypertensive mechanism of bendroflumethiazide is less well understood although it may be mediated through its action on carbonic anhydrases in the smooth muscle or through its action on the large-conductance calcium-activated potassium (KCa) channel, also found in the smooth muscle. Absorbed relatively rapidly after oral administration 96% 8.5 hours Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Goldberg, M.; U.S. Patent 3,265,573; August 9, 1966; assigned to E.R. Squibb & Sons, Inc. Lund, F., Lyngby, K. and Godtfredsen, W.O.; U.S. Patent 3,392,168; July 9, 1968; assigned
Allopurinol | DrugBank Online Gout is a disease that occurs by the deposition of monosodium urate crystals (MSU) in body tissues, especially around joints 7. This disease has been well-documented in historical medical records and appears in the biographies of several prominent, historically recognized individuals 7. Allopurinol is a xanthine oxidase enzyme inhibitor that is considered to be one of the most effective drugs used to decrease urate levels and is frequently used in the treatment of chronic gout 6. It was initially approved by the FDA in 1966 12 and is now formulated by several manufacturers 13. Allopurinol is indicated in Label: 1) the management of patients with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis, and/or nephropathy). 2) the management of patients with leukemia, lymphoma and malignancies who are receiving cancer therapy which causes elevations of serum and urinary uric acid levels. Treatment with allopurinol should be discontinued when the potential for overproduction of uric acid is no longer present. 3) the management of patients with recurrent calcium oxalate calculi whose daily uric acid excretion exceeds 800 mg/day in male patients and 750 mg/day in female patients. Therapy in such patients should be carefully assessed initially and reassessed periodically to determine in each case that treatment is beneficial and that the benefits outweigh the risks. Allopurinol decreases the production of uric acid by stopping the biochemical reactions that precede its formation Label. This process decreases urate and relieves the symptoms of gout, which may include painful tophi, joint pain, inflammation, redness, decreased range of motion, and swelling 2. Allopurinol is a structural analog of the natural purine base, hypoxanthine. After ingestion, allopurinol is metabolized to its active metabolite, oxypurinol (alloxanthine) in the liver 11, which acts as an inhibitor of xanthine oxidase enzyme Label.  Allopurinol and its active metabolite inhibit xanthine oxidase, the enzyme that converts hypoxanthine to xanthine and xanthine to uric acid. Inhibition of this enzyme is responsible for the effects of allopurinol. This drug increases the reutilization of hypoxanthine and xanthine for nucleotide and nucleic acid synthesis by a process that involves the enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HGPRTase). This process results in an increased nucleotide concentration, which causes feedback inhibition of de novo purine synthesis. The end result is decreased urine and serum uric acid concentrations 15, which decreases the incidence of gout symptoms.  Accompanying the reduction of serum uric acid by allopurinol is an increase in the serum and urine concentrations of hypoxanthine and xanthine (due to inhibition of xanthine oxidase). In the absence of allopurinol, regular urinary excretion of oxypurines almost entirely occurs in the form of uric acid. After the ingestion of allopurinol, the contents of excreted urine are hypoxanthine, xanthine, and uric acid. Because each substance has its own individual solubility, the concentration of uric acid in plasma is decreased without exposing the renal tissues to a high load of uric acid, thereby decreasing the risk of crystalluria. By lowering the uric acid concentration in the plasma below its limits of solubility, allopurinol encourages the dissolution of gout tophi. Although the levels of hypoxanthine and xanthine are found to be increased after allopurinol ingestion, the risk of deposition in renal tissues is less than that of uric acid, as they become more soluble and are rapidly excreted by the kidney 15.  This drug is about 90% absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Peak plasma levels normally occur at 1.5 hours and 4.5 hours post-dose for allopurinol and oxipurinol respectively. Following one oral dose of 300 mg of allopurinol, maximum plasma levels of about 3 mcg/mL of allopurinol and 6.5 mcg/mL of oxipurinol were measured Label. Allopurinol and oxypurinol are both substrates for the enzyme xanthine oxidase, which is present in the cytoplasm of endothelial cells of capillaries, including sinusoids, with the highest activity demonstrated in the liver and intestinal lining. Tissue concentrations of allopurinol have not yet been reported in humans, however, it is probable that allopurinol and the metabolite oxypurinol would be measured in the highest concentrations in the abovementioned tissues. In animals, allopurinol concentrations are found to reach the highest levels in the blood, liver, intestine and heart, and lowest in the brain and lung tissues 9. Allopurinol and oxypurinol are only negligibly bound to plasma proteins 10,9.  Allopurinol is rapidly metabolized to the corresponding xanthine analog, oxipurinol (alloxanthine), which is also an inhibitor of xanthine oxidase enzyme Label.
Both allopurinol and oxypurinol inhibit the action of this enzyme. Allopurinol and oxypurinol are also converted by the purine salvage pathway to their respective ribonucleotides. The effect of these ribonucleotides related to the hypouricemic action of allopurinol in humans is not fully elucidated to this date. These metabolites may act to inhibit de novo purine biosynthesis by inhibiting the enzyme, amidophosphoribosyltransferase. The ribonucleotides have not been found to be incorporated in DNA 8. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Approximately 80% of orally ingested allopurinol is found excreted in the urine as various metabolites 9. About 20% of ingested allopurinol is excreted in the feces Label.  The plasma half-life of allopurinol is 1-2 hours, due to its rapid renal clearance Label.  Since allopurinol and its metabolites are mainly eliminated by the kidney, accumulation of this drug can occur in patients with renal dysfunction or failure, and the dose of allopurinol should, therefore, be reduced. With a creatinine clearance of 10 to 20 mL/min, a daily dosage of 200 mg of allopurinol is suitable. When the creatinine clearance is less than 10 mL/min, the daily dosage should not be higher than 100 mg. With severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance measured at less than 3 mL/min) a longer interval between doses may be required Label.  Oral TDLO (rat): 10 mg/kg; Oral LD50 (mouse): 78 mg/kg; Oral TDLO (mouse): 100 mg/kg 14  Use in pregnancy Reproductive studies have been completed using rats and rabbit models at doses up to twenty times the normal human dose ( about 5 mg/kg per day), and it was concluded that fertility was not impaired and there was no fetal harm. There is a published report of a study in pregnant mice administered 50 or 100 mg/kg allopurinol intraperitoneally on gestation days 10 or 13. There were increased numbers of dead fetuses in dams administered 100 mg/kg allopurinol, however, death did not occur in those given 50 mg/kg. There were higher numbers of external malformations in fetuses at both doses of allopurinol on gestation day 10 and higher numbers of skeletal malformations in fetuses at both doses on gestation day 13. Despite the above findings, there are no adequate or well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response, this drug should be used during pregnancy only if it is absolutely required Label.  Use in nursing Both allopurinol and the metabolite oxipurinol have been found in the milk of a mother who was receiving allopurinol. Since the effect of allopurinol on the nursing infant is unknown, it is advisable to exercise caution when allopurinol is taken by a nursing woman Label.  Mutagenicity and carcinogenicity Cytogenic studies demonstrate that allopurinol does not induce chromosomal abnormalities in human blood cells in vitro at concentrations up to 100 g/mL and in vivo at doses up to 60 mg/day for an average duration of 40 months. Allopurinol does not form nitroso compounds (which may be carcinogenic) or affect lymphocyte transformation in vitro. Evidence suggests that allopurinol does not have deleterious effects on DNA at any stage of the cell cycle and was not found to be mutagenic. No evidence of carcinogenicity has been observed in mice treated with allopurinol for up to a 2 year period 15.  Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Druey, J. and Schmidt, P.; US. Patent 2868,803; January 13,1959; assigned to Ciba Pharmaceutical Products Inc.
Hitchings, G.H. and Falco, EA.; U.S. Patent 3,474,098; October 21,1969; assigned to Bur-
roughs Wellcome & Co.
Cresswell, R.M.and Mentha, J.W.; US.Patent4,146,713; March27,1979; assigned to Bur-
Dipivefrin | DrugBank Online Dipivefrin is a prodrug of adrenaline, which is used to treat glaucoma. It is available as ophthalmic solution (eye drops). Dipivefrin is a prodrug which is used as initial therapy for the control of intraocular pressure in chronic open-angle glaucoma. Dipivefrin is a member of a class of drugs known as prodrugs. Prodrugs are usually not active in themselves and require biotransformation to the parent compound before therapeutic activity is seen. These modifications are undertaken to enhance absorption, decrease side effects and enhance stability and comfort, thus making the parent compound a more useful drug. Enhanced absorption makes the prodrug a more efficient delivery system for the parent drug because less drug will be needed to produce the desired therapeutic response. Dipivefrin is a prodrug of epinephrine formed by the diesterification of epinephrine and pivalic acid. The addition of pivaloyl groups to the epinephrine molecule enhances its lipophilic character and, as a consequence, its penetration into the anterior chamber. Dipivefrin is a prodrug with little or no pharmacologically activity until it is hydrolyzed into epinephrine inside the human eye. The liberated epinephrine, an adrenergic agonist, appears to exert its action by stimulating α -and/or β2-adrenergic receptors, leading to a decrease in aqueous production and an enhancement of outflow facility. The dipivefrin prodrug delivery system is a more efficient way of delivering the therapeutic effects of epinephrine, with fewer side effects than are associated with conventional epinephrine therapy. Well absorbed following occular administration. Dipivefrin is converted to epinephrine inside the human eye by enzyme hydrolysis. Oral LD50 in rat is 183 mg/kg. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Hussain, A. and Truelove, J.E.; U.S. Patents 3,809.714; May 7,1974; and 3,839,584; October 1, 1974; both assigned to Inter Rx Research Corp.
Henschler, D., Wagner, J. and Hampel, H.; US. Patent 4,085,270; April 18,1978; assigned to
Droperidol | DrugBank Online A butyrophenone with general properties similar to those of haloperidol. It is used in conjunction with an opioid analgesic such as fentanyl to maintain the patient in a calm state of neuroleptanalgesia with indifference to surroundings but still able to cooperate with the surgeon. It is also used as a premedicant, as an antiemetic, and for the control of agitation in acute psychoses. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 29th ed, p593) Droperidol is ssed to produce tranquilization and to reduce the incidence of nausea and vomiting in surgical and diagnostic procedures. Droperidol produces marked tranquilization and sedation. It allays apprehension and provides a state of mental detachment and indifference while maintaining a state of reflex alertness. Droperidol produces an antiemetic effect as evidenced by the antagonism of apomorphine in dogs. It lowers the incidence of nausea and vomiting during surgical procedures and provides antiemetic protection in the postoperative period. Droperidol potentiates other CNS depressants. It produces mild alpha-adrenergic blockade, peripheral vascular dilatation and reduction of the pressor effect of epinephrine. It can produce hypotension and decreased peripheral vascular resistance and may decrease pulmonary arterial pressure (particularly if it is abnormally high). It may reduce the incidence of epinephrine-induced arrhythmias, but it does not prevent other cardiac arrhythmias. The exact mechanism of action is unknown, however, droperidol causes a CNS depression at subcortical levels of the brain, midbrain, and brainstem reticular formation. It may antagonize the actions of glutamic acid within the extrapyramidal system. It may also inhibit cathecolamine receptors and the reuptake of neurotransmiters and has strong central antidopaminergic action and weak central anticholinergic action. It can also produce ganglionic blockade and reduced affective response. The main actions seem to stem from its potent Dopamine(2) receptor antagonism with minor antagonistic effects on alpha-1 adrenergic receptors as well. Completely absorbed following intramuscular administration. Extensively metabolized. Biphasic distribution. The rapid distribution phase is 1.4 ± 0.5 minutes and the slower distribution phase is 14.3 ± 6.5 minutes. Elimination half-life in adults is 134 ± 13 minutes and may be increased in geriatric patients. In children, it is 101.5 ± 26.4 minutes. The intravenous LD50 of droperidol is 20-43 mg/kg in mice; 30 mg/kg in rats; 25 mg/kg in dogs and 11-13 mg/kg in rabbits. The intramuscular LD50 of droperidol is 195 mg/kg in mice, 104-110 mg/kg in rats; 97 mg/kg in rabbits and 200 mg/kg in guinea pigs. The manifestations of droperidol overdosage are an extension of its pharmacologic actions. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Janssen, P.A.J. and Gardocki, J.F.; U.S. Patent 3,141,823; July 21, 1964; assigned to Research Laboratorium Dr. C. Janssen NV, Belgium.
Loratadine | DrugBank Online Loratadine is a second generation antihistamine used to manage symptoms of allergic rhinitis.5 A lack of sedative and CNS adverse effects make loratadine, along with other second generation antihistamines, preferable over their 1st generation counterparts in many clinical situations.7 Loratadine is a 2nd generation antihistamine and is used to manage symptoms of allergic rhinitis, wheal formation, urticaria, and other allergic dermatologic conditions.5617  Like other 2nd generation antihistamines, loratadine is selective for peripheral H1 receptors.9 Loratadine does not penetrate effectively into the central nervous system and has poor affinity for CNS H1-receptors.9 These qualities result in a lack of CNS depressant effects such as drowsiness, sedation, and impaired psychomotor function.9 Histamine release is a key mediator in allergic rhinitis and urticaria.1278 As a result, loratadine exerts it's effect by targeting H1 histamine receptors. Loratadine binds to H1 histamine receptors found on the surface of epithelial cells, endothelial cells, eosinophils, neutrophils, airway cells, and vascular smooth muscle cells among others.7 H1 histamine receptors fall under the wider umbrella of G-protein coupled receptors, and exist in a state of equilibrium between the active and inactive forms.78 Histamine binding to the H1-receptor facilitates cross linking between transmembrane domains III and V, stabilizing the active form of the receptor.78 On the other hand, antihistamines bind to a different site on the H1 receptor favouring the inactive form.78 Hence, loratadine can more accurately be classified as an "inverse agonist" as opposed to a "histamine antagonist", and can prevent or reduce the severity of histamine mediated symptoms.7817  Loratadine is rapidly absorbed and achieves peak plasma concentration in 1-2 hours, while it's main metabolite achieves peak plasma concentration in 3-4 hours.6 In the rapid dissolve formulation, the pharmacokinetic parameters of loratadine are as follows17: Cmax = 2.56 ng/ml, Tmax = 1.14 hrs, AUC = 6.14 ng x hr/ml. In the rapid dissolve formulation, the pharmacokinetic parameters of descarboethoxyloratadine are as follows17: Cmax = 3.72 ng/ml, Tmax = 1.97 hr, AUC = 49.1 ng x hr/ml. In the conventional formulation, the pharmacokinetic parameters of loratadine are as follows17: Cmax = 2.11 ng/ml, Tmax = 1.00 hr, AUC = 4.64 ng x hr/ml In the conventional formulation, the pharmacokinetic parameters of descarboethoxyloratadine are as follows17: Cmax = 3.66 ng/ml, Tmax = 1.97 hr, AUC = 48.4 ng x hr/ml The volume of distribution of loratadine is 120 L/Kg.18 97 - 99% of the loratadine is bound to plasma proteins.17 Loratadine undergoes extensive first pass metabolism in the liver and is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4, CYP2D6, CYP1A1 and CYP2C19. Less involved CYP enzymes include CYP1A2, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9 and CYP3A5.1011 CYP3A4 and CYP2D6 are mainly responsible for metabolizing loratadine to descarboethoxyloratadine.11 This primary metabolite is 4 times more pharmacologically active than loratadine.6  In addition, a study demonstrates that descarboethoxyloratadine is first glucuronidated by UGT2B10, then hydroxylated by CYP2C8 to form 3-hydroxydesloratadine.15 Further glucuronidation of 3-hydroxydesloratadine facilitates excretion.16  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Over a 10 day period, 40% of loratadine is excreted in the urine, and 42% is eliminated in the faeces.17 The elimination half life is approximately 10 hours for loratadine and 20 hours for descarboethoxyloratadine.6 The clearance of loratadine after single oral doses of 20 mg and 40 mg are 12 L/h/kg and 9 L/h/kg respectively.9
Imipramine | DrugBank Online Imipramine, the prototypical tricyclic antidepressant (TCA), is a dibenzazepine-derivative TCA. TCAs are structurally similar to phenothiazines. They contain a tricyclic ring system with an alkyl amine substituent on the central ring. In non-depressed individuals, imipramine does not affect mood or arousal, but may cause sedation. In depressed individuals, imipramine exerts a positive effect on mood. TCAs are potent inhibitors of serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake. Tertiary amine TCAs, such as imipramine and amitriptyline, are more potent inhibitors of serotonin reuptake than secondary amine TCAs, such as nortriptyline and desipramine. TCAs also block histamine H1 receptors, α1-adrenergic receptors and muscarinic receptors, which accounts for their sedative, hypotensive and anticholinergic effects (e.g. blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, urinary retention), respectively 5. Imipramine has less sedative and anticholinergic effects than the tertiary amine TCAs, amitriptyline and clomipramine. Imipramine may be used to treat depression and nocturnal enuresis in children Label. Unlabeled indications include chronic and neuropathic pain (including diabetic neuropathy), panic disorder, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) 12,11,1,13,14,15,2. For the relief of symptoms of depression and as temporary adjunctive therapy in reducing enuresis in children aged 6 years and older Label.  May also be used off-label to manage panic disorders with or without agoraphobia, as a second line agent for ADHD in children and adolescents, to manage bulimia nervosa, for short-term management of acute depressive episodes in bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, for the treatment of acute stress disorder and posttraumatic stress disorder, and for symptomatic treatment of postherpetic neuralgia and painful diabetic neuropathy 12,11,1,13,14,15,2.  Imipramine is a tricyclic antidepressant with general pharmacological properties similar to those of structurally related tricyclic antidepressant drugs such as amitriptyline and doxepin. While it acts to block both, imipramine displays a much higher affinity for the serotonin reuptake transporter than for the norepinephrine reuptake transporter 5. Imipramine produces effects similar to other monoamine targeting antidepressants, increasing serotonin- and norepinephrine-based neurotransmission. This modulation of neurotransmission produces a complex range of changes in brain structure and function along with an improvement in depressive symptoms. The changes include increases in hippocampal neurogenesis and reduced downregulation of this neurogenesis in response to stress 6. These implicate brain derived neurotrophic factor signalling as a necessary contributor to antidepressant effect although the link to the direct increase in monoamine neurotransmission is unclear. Serotonin reuptake targeting agents may also produce a down-regulation in β-adrenergic receptors in the brain 8. Imipramine works by inhibiting the neuronal reuptake of the neurotransmitters norepinephrine and serotonin 5,10. It binds the sodium-dependent serotonin transporter and sodium-dependent norepinephrine transporter reducing the reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin by neurons. Depression has been linked to a lack of stimulation of the post-synaptic neuron by norepinephrine and serotonin 7. Slowing the reuptake of these neurotransmitters increases their concentration in the synaptic cleft, producing knock-on effects in protein kinase signalling which is thought to contribute to changes in neurotransmission and brain physiology which relieves symptoms of depression 9.  Rapidly and well absorbed (>95%) after oral administration 3. The primary site of absorption is the small intestine as the basic amine groups are ionized in the acidic environment of the stomach, preventing movement across tissues. Bioavailability ranges from 29-77% due to high inter-individual variability. Peak plasma concentration is usually attained 2-6 hours following oral administration. Absorption is unaffected by food.  Imipramine has a high apparent volume of distribution of 10-20 L/kg 3. The drug is known to accumulate in the brain at concentrations 30-40 times that in systemic circulation. Imipramine is 60-96% bound to plasma proteins in circulation 3. It is known to bind albumin, α1-acid glycoprotein, and lipoproteins. Imipramine is nearly exclusively metabolized by the liver 3. Imipramine is converted to desipramine by CYP1A2, CYP3A4, CYP2C19. Both imipramine and desipramine are hydroxylated by CYP2D6 4. Desipramine is an active metabolite. Minor metabolic pathways include dealkylation to form an imidodibenzyl product as well as demethylation of desipramine to didemethylimipramine and subsequent hydroxylation 3. Less than 5% of orally administered imipramine is excreted unchanged. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Imipramine is primarily excreted in the urine with less than 5% present as the parent compound 3 Imipramine has a mean half life of 12 h. Its active metabolite, desipramine has a mean half life of 22.5 h 3. Imipramine has a mean clearance of 1 L/h/kg. Its active metabolite, desipramine has a mean clearance of 1.8 L/h/kg 3. The anticholinergic actvity of imipramine can produce dry mucous membranes, blurred vision, increased intraocular pressure, hyperthermia, constipation, adynamic ileus, urinary retention, delayed micturition, and dilation of the urinary tract 16. Central nervous system and neuromuscular effects include drowsiness, lethargy, fatigue, agitation, excitement, nightmares, restlessness, insomnia, confusion, disturbed concentration, disorientation, delusions, and hallucinations. Effects on the GI tract include anorexia, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal cramps, increases in pancreatic enzymes, epigastric distress, stomatitis, peculiar taste, and black tongue. Rarely agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, leukopenia, and purpura have occured. Infants whose mothers were receiving tricyclic antidepressants prior to delivery have experienced cardiac problems, irritability, respiratory distress, muscle spasms, seizures, and urinary retention. Serotonin syndrome can occur when used in conjunction with other pro-serotonergic drugs. Rat
- Oral 250 mg/kg
- Intraperitoneal 79mg/kg
- Subcutaneous 250 mg/kg
- Intravenous 15.9 mg/kg Mouse
- Oral 188 mg/kg
- Intraperitoneal 51.6 mg/kg
- Subcutaneous 195 μg/kg
Chlorpromazine | DrugBank Online The prototypical phenothiazine antipsychotic drug. Like the other drugs in this class, chlorpromazine's antipsychotic actions are thought to be due to long-term adaptation by the brain to blocking dopamine receptors. Chlorpromazine has several other actions and therapeutic uses, including as an antiemetic and in the treatment of intractable hiccup. For the treatment of schizophrenia; to control nausea and vomiting; for relief of restlessness and apprehension before surgery; for acute intermittent porphyria; as an adjunct in the treatment of tetanus; to control the manifestations of the manic type of manic-depressive illness; for relief of intractable hiccups; for the treatment of severe behavioral problems in children (1 to 12 years of age) marked by combativeness and/or explosive hyperexcitable behavior (out of proportion to immediate provocations), and in the short-term treatment of hyperactive children who show excessive motor activity with accompanying conduct disorders consisting of some or all of the following symptoms: impulsivity, difficulty sustaining attention, aggressivity, mood lability, and poor frustration tolerance. Chlorpromazine is a psychotropic agent indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia. It also exerts sedative and antiemetic activity. Chlorpromazine has actions at all levels of the central nervous system-primarily at subcortical levels-as well as on multiple organ systems. Chlorpromazine has strong antiadrenergic and weaker peripheral anticholinergic activity; ganglionic blocking action is relatively slight. It also possesses slight antihistaminic and antiserotonin activity. Chlorpromazine acts as an antagonist (blocking agent) on different postsysnaptic receptors -on dopaminergic-receptors (subtypes D1, D2, D3 and D4 - different antipsychotic properties on productive and unproductive symptoms), on serotonergic-receptors (5-HT1 and 5-HT2, with anxiolytic, antidepressive and antiaggressive properties as well as an attenuation of extrapypramidal side-effects, but also leading to weight gain, fall in blood pressure, sedation and ejaculation difficulties), on histaminergic-receptors (H1-receptors, sedation, antiemesis, vertigo, fall in blood pressure and weight gain), alpha1/alpha2-receptors (antisympathomimetic properties, lowering of blood pressure, reflex tachycardia, vertigo, sedation, hypersalivation and incontinence as well as sexual dysfunction, but may also attenuate pseudoparkinsonism - controversial) and finally on muscarinic (cholinergic) M1/M2-receptors (causing anticholinergic symptoms like dry mouth, blurred vision, obstipation, difficulty/inability to urinate, sinus tachycardia, ECG-changes and loss of memory, but the anticholinergic action may attenuate extrapyramidal side-effects).
Amikacin | DrugBank Online Amikacin is a semi-synthetic aminoglycoside antibiotic that is derived from kanamycin A.Label Amikacin is synthesized by acylation with the l-(-)-γ-amino-α-hydroxybutyryl side chain at the C-1 amino group of the deoxystreptamine moiety of kanamycin A.2 Amikacin's unique property is that it exerts activity against more resistant gram-negative bacilli such as Acinetobacter baumanii and Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Amikacin also exerts excellent activity against most aerobic gram-negative bacilli from the Enterobacteriaceae family, including Nocardia and some Mycobacterium (M. avium-intracellulare, M. chelonae, and M. fortuitum)4. M. avium-intracellulare (MAC) is a type of nontuberculous mycobacteria (NTM) found in water and soil. Symptoms of this disease include a persistent cough, fatigue, weight loss, night sweats, and shortness of breath and the coughing up of blood.4 Several forms of amikacin are used currently, including an intravenous (IV) or intramuscular (IM) injection.6 In September 2018, a liposomal inhalation suspension of this drug was approved by the FDA for the treatment of lung disease caused by Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) bacteria in a small population of patients with the disease who do not respond to traditional treatment.4,5 The amikacin sulfate injection is indicated in the short-term treatment of serious bacterial infections due to susceptible strains of gram-negative bacteria, including Pseudomonas species, Escherichia coli, species of indole-positive and indole-negative Proteus, Providencia species, Klebsiella-Enterobacter-Serratia species, as well as Acinetobacter (Mima-Herellea) species.8 Clinical studies have shown amikacin sulfate injection to be effective in bacterial septicemia (including neonatal sepsis); in serious infections of the respiratory tract, bones and joints, central nervous system (including meningitis) and skin and soft tissue; intra-abdominal infections (including peritonitis); and in burns and postoperative infections (including post-vascular surgery).8 Clinical studies have shown amikacin also to be effective in serious, complicated, and recurrent urinary tract infections due to the above organisms. Aminoglycosides, including amikacin, are not indicated in uncomplicated first-time episodes of urinary tract infections unless the causative organisms are not susceptible to antibiotics which are less toxic.8 In September 2018, a new indication with a new dosage route was approved for this drug. Amikacin liposome inhalation suspension was approved for the treatment of lung disease caused by a group of bacteria, Mycobacterium avium complex (MAC) in a limited population of patients with the disease who do not respond to conventional treatment (refractory disease).3 This indication is approved under accelerated approval based on achieving sputum culture conversion (defined as 3 consecutive negative monthly sputum cultures) by Month 6 of treatment. Clinical benefit has not yet been established.Label Important notes regarding Staphylococcus and Sensitivity testing: Staphylococcus aureus, including methicillin-resistant strains, is the principal Gram-positive organism sensitive to amikacin.
Lenalidomide | DrugBank Online Lenalidomide (initially known as CC-5013 and marketed as Revlimid® by Celgene) is a derivative of thalidomide introduced in 2004. It was initially intended as a treatment for multiple myeloma, for which thalidomide is an accepted therapeutic modality, but has also shown efficacy in the hematological disorders known as the myelodysplastic syndromes. FDA approved on December 27, 2005. Lenalidomide is indicated for the treatment of multiple myeloma in combination with dexamethasone. It is also indicated for the treatment of patients with transfusion-dependent anemia due to low- or intermediate- risk myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) associated with a deletion 5q cytogenetic abnormality with or without additional cytogenetic abnormalities. Lenalidomide, a thalidomide analogue, is an immunomodulatory agent possessing immunomodulatory and antiangiogenic properties. Lenalidomide inhibits the secretion of pro-inflammatory cytokines and increases the secretion of anti-inflammatory cytokines from peripheral blood mononuclear cells. Lenalidomide inhibits cell proliferation with varying effectiveness (IC50s) in some but not all cell lines. Lenalidomide is effective in inhibiting growth of Namalwa cells (a human B cell lymphoma cell line with a deletion of one chromosome 5) but is much less effective in inhibiting growth of KG-1 cells (human myeloblastic cell line, also with a deletion of one chromosome 5) and other cell lines without chromosome 5 deletions. Lenalidomide does not prolong the QTc interval.  The mechanism of action of lenalidomide remains to be fully characterized, however it has been demonstrated that lenalidomide inhibits the expression of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2), but not COX-1, in vitro. In vivo it induces tumor cell apoptosis directly and indirectly by inhibition of bone marrow stromal cell support, by anti-angiogenic and anti-osteoclastogenic effects, and by immunomodulatory activity Rapidly absorbed following oral administration, with maximum plasma concentrations occurring between 0.625 and 1.5 hours post-dose. Co-administration with food does not alter the extent of absorption (AUC) but does reduce the maximal plasma concentration (Cmax) by 36%. The pharmacokinetic disposition of lenalidomide is linear. Accumulation does not occur following multiple doses.  30% protein bound.  Lenalidomide undergoes limited metabolism. Unchanged lenalidomide is the predominant circulating component in humans. Two identified metabolites are hydroxy-lenalidomide and N-acetyl-lenalidomide; each constitutes less than 5% of parent levels in circulation. The cytochrome P450 enzyme system is not involved with the metabolism of lenalidomide.  Elimination is primarily renal. When a single oral dose of 25 mg is given healthy subjects, 90% and 4% of the dose is eliminated in urine and feces, respectively. Hydroxy-lenalidomide and N-acetyl-lenalidomide represent 4.59% and 1.83% of the excreted dose, respectively. Healthy subjects = 3 hours;
Dicloxacillin | DrugBank Online One of the penicillins which is resistant to penicillinase. Used to treat infections caused by penicillinase-producing staphylococci which have demonstrated susceptibility to the drug. Dicloxacillin is a beta-lactamase resistant penicillin similar to oxacillin. Dicloxacillin has in vitro activity against gram-positive and gram-negative aerobic and anaerobic bacteria. The bactericidal activity of dicloxacillin results from the inhibition of cell wall synthesis and is mediated through dicloxacillin binding to penicillin binding proteins (PBPs). Dicloxacillin is stable against hydrolysis by a variety of beta-lactamases, including penicillinases, and cephalosporinases and extended spectrum beta-lactamases. Dicloxacillin exerts a bactericidal action against penicillin-susceptible microorganisms during the state of active multiplication. All penicillins inhibit the biosynthesis of the bacterial cell wall. By binding to specific penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) located inside the bacterial cell wall, dicloxacillin inhibits the third and last stage of bacterial cell wall synthesis. Cell lysis is then mediated by bacterial cell wall autolytic enzymes such as autolysins; it is possible that dicloxacillin interferes with an autolysin inhibitor. Absorption of the isoxazolyl penicillins after oral administration is rapid but incomplete: peak blood levels are achieved in 1-1.5 hours. Oral absorption of cloxacillin, dicloxacillin, oxacillin and nafcillin is delayed when the drugs are administered after meals. Binds to serum protein, mainly albumin. Dicloxacillin sodium is rapidly excreted as unchanged drug in the urine by glomerular filtration and active tubular secretion. The elimination half-life for dicloxacillin is about 0.7 hour. Oral LD50 in rat is 3579 mg/kg. Symptoms of overexposure include irritation, rash, labored breathing, hives, itching, wheezing, nausea, chills, and fever. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Sallmann, A. and Pfister, R.; U.S.Patent 3,558,690; January 26,1971; assigned to Geigy Chemical Corporation.
Sotalol | DrugBank Online Sotalol is a methanesulfonanilide developed in 1960.6 It was the first of the class III anti arrhythmic drugs.6 Sotalol was first approved as an oral tablet on 30 October 1992.8 A racemic mixture of sotalol is currently formulated as a tablet, oral solution, and intravenous injection indicated for life threatening ventricular arrhythmias and maintaining normal sinus rhythm in atrial fibrillation or flutter.Label,9,10 Sotalol is indicated to treat life threatening ventricular arrhytmias and maintain normal sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation or flutter.Label There are also oral solutions and intravenous injections indicated for patients requiring sotalol, but for whom a tablet would not be appropriate.Label,9,10 Sotalol is a competitive inhibitor of the rapid potassium channel.2 This inhibition lengthens the duration of action potentials and the refractory period in the atria and ventricles.3,4 The inhibition of rapid potassium channels is increases as heart rate decreases, which is why adverse effects like torsades de points is more likely to be seen at lower heart rates.6 L-sotalol also has beta adrenergic receptor blocking activity seen above plasma concentrations of 800ng/L.6 The beta blocking ability of sotalol further prolongs action potentials.6 D-sotalol does not have beta blocking activity but also reduces a patient's heart rate while standing or exercising.6 These actions combine to produce a negative inotropic effect that reduces the strength of contractility of muscle cells in the heart.2 Extension of the QT interval is also adversely associated with the induction of arrhythmia in patients.4 Hyperglycemia is a greater risk for non insulin dependant diabetics than insulin dependant diabetics.7 Beta blockers inhibit insulin secretion which may cause hyperglycemia in type II diabetes mellitus.7 The risk of hypoglycemia is higher in insulin dependant diabetes than non insulin dependant diabetics.7 Beta blockers decrease secretion of insulin, which may mask hypoglycemia in an insulin dependant patient.7 Beta blockers also increase glucose uptake into cells which may prolong or potentiate hypoglycemia.7 Further information regarding adverse reactions can be found here.11 Sotalol inhibits beta-1 adrenoceptors in the myocardium as well as rapid potassium channels to slow repolarization, lengthen the QT interval, and slow and shorten conduction of action potentials through the atria.2,3,4,5 The action of sotalol on beta adrenergic receptors lengthens the sinus node cycle, conduction time through the atrioventricular node, refractory period, and duration of action potentials.6 Sotalol is 90-100% bioavailable.Label,1 When taken with a meal, adsorption is lowered by 18%.Label,1
Levonorgestrel | DrugBank Online Levonorgestrel (LNG) is a synthetic progestogen similar to Progesterone used in contraception and hormone therapy.7,17 Also known as Plan B, it is used as a single agent in emergency contraception, and as a hormonal contraceptive released from an intrauterine device, commonly referred to as an IUD. Some of these devices are known as Jaydess, Kyleena, and Mirena. A subdermal implant of levonorgestrel that slowly releases the hormone over a long-term period is also available.28 In addition to the above uses, levonorgestrel is used as a component of long-term combination contraceptives.8,18,20  Globally, levonorgestrel is the most commonly used emergency contraceptive. It was initially granted FDA approval in 1982 and was the first emergency contraceptive containing only progesterone, showing high levels of efficacy and a lack of estrogenic adverse effects when compared to older emergency contraceptive regimens.3,9,18 Emergency contraception Levonorgestrel, in the single-agent emergency contraceptive form, is indicated for the prevention of pregnancy after the confirmed or suspected failure of contraception methods or following unprotected intercourse. It is distributed by prescription for patients under 17, and over the counter for those above this age.18 This levonorgestrel-only form of contraception is not indicated for regular contraception and must be taken as soon as possible within 72 hours after intercourse.3,18 It has shown a lower efficacy when it is used off label within 96 hours.17 Long-term contraception or nonemergency contraception In addition to the above indication in emergency contraception, levonorgestrel is combined with other contraceptives in contraceptive formulations designed for regular use, for example with ethinyl estradiol.19 It is used in various hormone-releasing intrauterine devices for long-term contraception ranging for a duration of 3-5 years.20,21,22 Product labeling for Mirena specifically mentions that it is recommended in women who have had at least 1 child.20 A subdermal implant is also available for the prevention of pregnancy for up to 5 years.28 Hormone therapy and off-label uses Levonorgestrel is prescribed in combination with estradiol as hormone therapy during menopause to manage vasomotor symptoms and to prevent osteoporosis.26Off-label, levonorgestrel may be used to treat menorrhagia, endometrial hyperplasia, and endometriosis.17 Levonorgestrel prevents pregnancy by interfering with ovulation, fertilization, and implantation. The levonorgestrel-only containing emergency contraceptive tablet is 89% effective if it is used according to prescribing information within 72 hours after intercourse.3,7 The intrauterine and implantable devices releasing levonorgestrel are more than 99% in preventing pregnancy.14,20,21 Levonorgestrel utilized as a component of hormonal therapy helps to prevent endometrial carcinoma associated with unopposed estrogen administration.13 Mechanism of action on ovulation Oral contraceptives containing levonorgestrel suppress gonadotropins, inhibiting ovulation. Specifically, levonorgestrel binds to progesterone and androgen receptors and slows the release of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) from the hypothalamus. This process results in the suppression of the normal physiological luteinizing hormone (LH) surge that precedes ovulation. It inhibits the rupture of follicles and viable egg release from the ovaries. Levonorgestrel has been proven to be more effective when administered before ovulation.17 Mechanism of action in cervical mucus changes Similar to other levonorgestrel-containing contraceptives, the intrauterine (IUD) forms of levonorgestrel likely prevent pregnancy by increasing the thickness of cervical mucus, interfering with the movement and survival of sperm, and inducing changes in the endometrium, where a fertilized ovum is usually implanted.20,21 Levonorgestrel is reported to alter the consistency of mucus in the cervix, which interferes with sperm migration into the uterus for fertilization. Levonorgestrel is not effective after implantation has occurred.3
Nitazoxanide | DrugBank Online Nitazoxanide belongs to the class of drugs known as thiazolides. Nitazoxanide (NTZ) is a broad-spectrum anti-infective drug that markedly modulates the survival, growth, and proliferation of a range of extracellular and intracellular protozoa, helminths, anaerobic and microaerophilic bacteria, in addition to viruses. This drug is effective in the treatment of gastrointestinal infections including Cryptosporidium parvum or Giardia lamblia in healthy subjects. It is generally well tolerated. Nitazoxanide is a first-line, standard treatment for illness caused by C. parvum or G. lamblia infection in healthy (not immunosuppressed) adults and children and may also be considered in the treatment of illnesses caused by other protozoa or helminths 2. Recently, this drug has been studied as a broad-spectrum antiviral agent due to its ability to inhibit the replication of several RNA and DNA viruses 3. For the treatment of diarrhea in adults and children caused by the protozoa Giardia lamblia, and for the treatment of diarrhea in children caused by the protozoan, Cryptosporidium parvum Label. Nitazoxanide has not been shown to be superior to placebo medication for the management of diarrhea caused by Cryptosporidium parvum in patients with HIV/immunodeficiency Label,1,2.  The general effect of this medication is the prevention of microbe activity through disruption of important energy pathways for survival and proliferation Label,2. Nitazoxanide exhibits antiprotozoal activity by interfering with the pyruvate ferredoxin/flavodoxin oxidoreductase dependent electron transfer reaction, an essential reaction need for anaerobic energy metabolism of various microorganisms. Sporozoites of Cryptosporidium parvum and trophozoites of Giardia lamblia are therefore inhibited, relieving symptoms of diahrrea 10. Interference with the PFOR enzyme-dependent electron transfer reaction may only be one of the many pathways by which nitazoxanide exhibits antiprotozoal activity Label,1,10.  The most widely accepted mechanism of NTZ is believed to be the disruption of the energy metabolism in anaerobic microbes by inhibition of the pyruvate: ferredoxin/flavodoxin oxidoreductase (PFOR) cycle 5. In parasitic-protozoa, Nitazoxanide also induces lesions in the cell membranes and depolarizes the mitochondrial membrane while inhibiting quinone oxidoreductase NQO1, nitroreductase-1 and protein disulphide isomerase enzymes. In addition, this drug also inhibits the glutathione-S-transferase (a major detoxifying enzyme) and modulates the Avr-14 gene, encoding for the alpha-type subunit of glutamate-gated chloride ion channel present in nematodes. Aside from its well understood non-competitive inhibition of the PFOR in anaerobic bacteria, NTZ also demonstrates various other antibacterial mechanisms. It inhibits pyruvate dehydrogenase in E Coli, disrupts the membrane potential and pH homeostasis in the Mycobacterium tuberculosis, suppresses the chaperone/usher (CU) pathway of the gram-negative bacteria, and stimulates host macrophage autophagy in tuberculosis patients 2. NTZ also suppresses viral replication by inhibiting the maturation of the viral hemagglutinin and the viral transcription factor immediate early 2 (IE2) as well as by activating the eukaryotic translation initiation factor 2α (an antiviral intracellular protein). Lastly, NTZ exhibits an inhibitory effect on tumor cell progression by altering drug detoxification (glutathione-S-transferase P1), unfolded protein response, autophagy, anti-cytokines activity, and c-Myc inhibition 2. The relative bioavailability of the suspension compared to the tablet was 70%. When administered with food the AUC and Cmax increased by two-fold and 50%, respectively, for the tablet and 45 to 50% and ≤ 10%, respectively, for the oral suspension Label. Very High (greater than 99%), bound to proteins in the plasma Label,5. The active metabolite of this drug is tizoxanide (desacetyl-nitazoxanide). The initial reaction in the metabolic pathway of Nitazoxanide is hydrolysis to tizoxanide, followed by conjugation, primarily by glucuronidation to tizoxanide glucuronide. The oral suspension bioavailability of this drug is not equivalent to that of the oral tablets. Compared to the to the tablet, the bioavailability of the suspension was 70% Label. When administered with food, the AUCt of tizoxanide and tizoxanide glucuronide in plasma is increased to almost two-fold and the maximum concentration is increased by almost 50% compared to when ingested without food Label. When the oral suspension was ingested with food, the AUC of tizoxanide and tizoxanide glucuronide increased by approximately 50% and the Cmax increased by less than 10% Label. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Tizoxanide is excreted in the urine, bile and feces, and tizoxanide glucuronide is excreted in urine and bile. Approximately 2/3 of the oral dose of nitazoxanide is excreted in the faeces and 1/3 in the urine Label,5. 7.3h 8 Nitazoxanide is cleared in the urine and feces. The metabolite, tizoxanide, is also found in the urine, plasma, and breastmilk 9. The drug is not found unchanged in the urine 9. Data on nitazoxanide overdosage is not available Label. In studies in rodents and dogs, the oral LD50 was higher than 10,000 mg/kg. One-time oral doses of up to 4000 mg nitazoxanide have been given to healthy adult volunteers without severe adverse effects. Gastric lavage may be appropriate soon after oral administration if overdose occurs. Supportive and symptomatic treatment should also be administered Label. According to previous studies Label, less than 1% of the patients age 12 years and older participating in clinical trials with NTZ suffered from the following adverse effects:
Systemic: asthenia, fever, pain, allergic reaction, pelvic pain, back pain, chills, fever, flu-like syndrome.
Central Nervous System: dizziness, somnolence, insomnia, tremor, hypesthesia.
Gastrointestinal System: vomiting, dyspepsia, anorexia, flatulence, constipation, dry mouth, thirst.
Urogenital System: discolored urine, dysuria, amenorrhea, metrorrhagia, kidney pain, edema labia.
Metabolic & Nutrition: increased SGPT.
Hemic & Lymphatic Systems: anemia, leukocytosis.
Skin: rash, pruritus.
Special Senses: eye discoloration, ear ache.
Respiratory System: epistaxis, lung disease, pharyngitis.
Cardiovascular System: tachycardia, syncope, hypertension.
Dextrothyroxine | DrugBank Online The major hormone derived from the thyroid gland. Thyroxine is synthesized via the iodination of tyrosines (monoiodotyrosine) and the coupling of iodotyrosines (diiodotyrosine) in the thyroglobulin. Thyroxine is released from thyroglobulin by proteolysis and secreted into the blood. Thyroxine is peripherally deiodinated to form triiodothyronine which exerts a broad spectrum of stimulatory effects on cell metabolism. Used to lower high cholesterol levels in the blood. Dextrothyroxine, the dextrorotary isomer of the synthetic thyroxine, is a antihyperlipidemic. Dextrothyroxine is a antihyperlipidemic. The mechanism of action is not completely understood, but dextrothyroxine apparently acts in the liver to stimulate formation of low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and, to a much greater extent, to increase catabolism of LDL. This leads to increased excretion of cholesterol and bile acids via the biliary route into the feces, with a resulting reduction in serum cholesterol and LDL. Dextrothyroxine has no significant effect on high-density lipoproteins (HDL).
Valproic acid | DrugBank Online Valproic acid, or valproate, is an fatty acid derivative and anticonvulsant originally synthesized in 1881 by Beverly S. Burton.26 It enjoyed use as a popular organic solvent in industry and pharmaceutical manufacturing for nearly a century. In 1963, a serendipitous discovery was made by George Carraz during his investigations into the anticonvulsant effects of khelline when he found that all of his samples, dissolved in valproic acid, exerted a similar degree of anticonvulsive activity. It first received approval on February 28, 1978 from the FDA under the trade name Depakene.29 Since then, it has been investigated for neuroprotective, anti-manic, and anti-migraine effects. It is currently a compound of interest in the field of oncology for its anti-proliferative effects and is the subject of many clinical trials in a variety of cancer types. Indicated for:Label  1) Use as monotherapy or adjunctive therapy in the management of complex partial seizures and simple or complex absence seizures.  2) Adjunctive therapy in the management of multiple seizure types that include absence seizures.  3) Prophylaxis of migraine headaches. 4) Acute management of mania associated with bipolar disorder. Off-label uses include: 1) Maintenance therapy for bipolar disorder.7 2) Treatment for acute bipolar depression.8,9,10 3) Emergency treatment of status epilepticus.11 Valproate has been shown to reduce the incidence of complex partial seizures and migraine headaches.Label,5 It also improves symptom control in bipolar mania.23 Although the exact mechanisms responsible are unknown, it is thought that valproate produces increased cortical inhibition to contribute to control of neural synchrony. It is also thought that valproate exerts a neuroprotective effect preventing damage and neural degeneration in epilepsy, migraines, and bipolar disorder. Valproate is hepatotoxic and teratogenic. The reasons for this are unclear but have been attributed to the genomic effects of the drug.1 A small proof-of concept study found that valproate increases clearance of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) when combined with highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) by reactivating the virus to allow clearance, however, a larger multicentre trial failed to show a significant effect on HIV reservoirs when added to HAART.2,6 The FDA labeling contains a warning regarding HIV reactivation during valproate use.Label. The exact mechanisms by which valproate exerts it's effects on epilepsy, migraine headaches, and bipolar disorder are unknown however several pathways exist which may contribute to the drug's action. Valproate is known to inhibit succinic semialdehyde dehydrogenase.12 This inhibition results in an increase in succinic semialdehyde which acts as an inhibitor of GABA transaminase ultimately reducing GABA metabolism and increasing GABAergic neurotransmission. As GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter, this increase results in increased inhibitory activity.1 A possible secondary contributor to cortical inhibition is a direct suppression of voltage gated sodium channel activity and indirect suppression through effects on GABA. It has also been suggested that valproate impacts the extracellular signal-related kinase pathway (ERK).1 These effects appear to be dependent on mitogen-activated protein kinase (MEK) and result in the phosphorylation of ERK1/2. This activation increases expression of several downstream targets including ELK-1 with subsequent increases in c-fos, growth cone-associated protein-43 which contributes to neural plasticity, B-cell lymphoma/leukaemia-2 which is an anti-apoptotic protein, and brain-derived neurotrophic factor (BDNF) which is also involved in neural plasticity and growth. Increased neurogenesis and neurite growth due to valproate are attributed to the effects of this pathway. An additional downstream effect of increased BDNF expression appears to be an increase in GABAA receptors which contribute further to increased GABAergic activity.13 Valproate exerts a non-competitive indirect inhibitory effect on myo-inosital-1-phophate synthetase.14 This results in reduced de novo synthesis of inositol monophosphatase and subsequent inositol depletion. It is unknown how this contributed to valproate's effects on bipolar disorder but [lithium] is known to exert a similar inositol-depleting effect.15 Valproate exposure also appears to produce down-regulation of protein kinase C proteins (PKC)-α and -ε which are potentially related to bipolar disorder as PKC is unregulated in the frontal cortex of bipolar patients. This is further supported by a similar reduction in PKC with lithium.16 The inhibition of the PKC pathway may also be a contributor to migraine prophylaxis.17 Myristoylated alanine-rich C kinase substrate, a PKC substrate, is also downregulated by valproate and may contribute to changes in synaptic remodeling through effects on the cytoskeleton.18 Valproate also appears to impact fatty acid metabolism.1 Less incorporation of fatty acid substrates in sterols and glycerolipids is thought to impact membrane fluidity and result in increased action potential threshold potentially contributing to valproate's antiepileptic action.19 Valproate has been found to be a non-competitive direct inhibitor of brain microsomal long-chain fatty acyl-CoA synthetase.20 Inhibition of this enzyme decreases available arichidonyl-CoA, a substrate in the production of inflammatory prostaglandins. It is thought that this may be a mechanism behind valproate's efficacy in migraine prophylaxis as migraines are routinely treated with non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs which also inhibit prostaglandin production. Finally, valproate acts as a direct histone deactylase (HDAC) inhibitor.22 Hyperacetylation of lysine residues on histones promoted DNA relaxation and allows for increased gene transcription. The scope of valproate's genomic effects is wide with 461 genes being up or down-regulated.21 The relation of these genomic effects to therapeutic value is not fully characterized however H3 and H4 hyperacetylation correlates with improvement of symptoms in bipolar patients.23 Histone hyperacetylation at the BDNF gene, increasing BDNF expression, post-seizure is known to occur and is thought to be a neuroprotective mechanism which valproate may strengthen or prolong.24 H3 hyperacetylation is associated with a reduction in glyceraldehyde-3-phosphate dehydrogenase, a pro-apoptotic enzyme, contributing further to valproate's neuroprotective effects.25 The intravenous and oral forms of valproic acid are expected to produce the same AUC, Cmax, and Cmin at steady-state.Label The oral delayed-release tablet formulation has a Tmax of 4 hours. Differences in absorption rate are expected from other formulations but are not considered to be clinically important in the context of chronic therapy beyond impacting frequency of dosing. Differences in absorption may create earlier Tmax or higher Cmax values on initiation of therapy and may be affected differently by meals.30 The extended release tablet formulation had Tmax increase from 4 hours to 8 hours when taken with food. In comparison, the sprinkle capsule formulation had Tmax increase from 3.3 hours to 4.8 hours. Bioavailability is reported to be approximately 90% with all oral formulations with enteric-coated forms possibly reaching 100%.27 11 L/1.73m2.Label Protein binding is linear at low concentrations with a free fraction of approximately 10% at 40 mcg/mL but becomes non-linear at higher concentrations with a free fraction of 18.5% at 135 mcg/mL.Label This may be due to binding at separate high and low-affinity sites on albumin proteins.27 Binding is expected to decrease in the elderly and patients with hepatic dysfunction. Most drug is metabolized to glucuronide conjugates (30-50%) of the parent drug or of metabolites.Label,27 Another large portion is metabolized through mitochondrial β-oxidation (40%). The remainder of metabolism (15-20%) occurs through oxidation, hydroxylation, and dehydrogenation at the ω, ω1, and ω2 positions resulting in the formation of hydroxyls, ketones, carboxyls, a lactone metabolite, double bonds, and combinations.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Most drug is eliminated through hepatic metabolism, about 30-50%.Label The other major contributing pathway is mitochondrial β-oxidation, about 40%. Other oxidative pathways make up an additional 15-20%. Less than 3% is excreted unchanged in the urine. 13-19 hours.Label The half-life in neonates ranges from 10-67 hours while the half-life in pediatric patients under 2 months of age ranges from 7-13 hours. 0.56 L/hr/m2Label Pediatric patients between 3 months and 10 years of age have 50% higher clearances by weight. Pediatric patients 10 years of age or older approximate adult values.Label LD50 Values Oral, mouse: 1098 mg/kg Oral, rat: 670 mg/kg Overdose Symptoms of overdose include somnolence, heart block, deep coma, and hypernatremia. Fatalities have been reported, however patients have recovered from valproate serum concentrations as high as 2120 mcg/mL. The unbound fraction may be removed by hemodialysis. Naloxone has been demonstrated to reverse the CNS depressant effects of overdose but may also reverse the anti-epileptic effects.Label Reproductive Toxicity Valproate use in pregnancy is known to increase the risk of neural tube defects and other structural abnormalities.Label The risk of spina bifida increases from 0.06-0.07% in the normal population to 1-2% in valproate users. The North American Antiepileptic Drug (NAAED)
Pregnancy Registry reports a major malformation rate of 9-11%, 5 times the baseline rate. These malformations include neural tube defects, cardiovascular malformations, craniofacial defects (e.g., oral clefts, craniosynostosis), hypospadias, limb malformations (e.g., clubfoot, polydactyly), and other malformations of varying severity involving other body systems. Other antiepileptic drugs, lamotrigine, carbemazepine, and phenytoin, have been found to reduce IQ in children exposed in utero. Valproate was also studied however the results did not achieve statistical significance (97 IQ (CI: 94-101)). Observational studies report an absolute risk increase of 2.9% (relative risk 2.9 times baseline) of autism spectrum disorder in children exposed to valproate in utero. There have been case reports of fatal hepatic failure in children of mothers who used valproate during pregnancy. There have been reports of male infertility when taking valproate.Label Lactation Valproate is excreted in human milk.Label Data in the published literature describe the presence of valproate in human milk (range: 0.4 mcg/mL to 3.9 mcg/mL), corresponding to 1% to 10% of maternal serum levels. Valproate serum concentrations collected from breastfed infants aged 3 days postnatal to 12 weeks following delivery ranged from 0.7 mcg/mL to 4 mcg/mL, which were 1% to 6% of maternal serum valproate levels. A published study in children up to six years of age did not report adverse developmental or cognitive effects following exposure to valproate
Anisotropine methylbromide | DrugBank Online Anisotropine methylbromide is a quaternary ammonium compound. Its use as treatment adjunct in peptic ulcer has been replaced by the use of more effective agents. Depending on the dose, anisotropine methylbromide may reduce the motility and secretory activity of the gastrointestinal system, and the tone of the ureter and urinary bladder and may have a slight relaxant action on the bile ducts and gallbladder. In general, smaller doses of anisotropine methylbromide inhibit salivary and bronchial secretions, sweating, and accommodation; cause dilatation of the pupil; and increase the heart rate. Larger doses are required to decrease motility of the gastrointestinal and urinary tracts and to inhibit gastric acid secretion. For use in conjunction with antacids or histamine H2-receptor antagonists in the treatment of peptic ulcer, to reduce further gastric acid secretion and delay gastric emptying. Anisotropine methylbromide is a quaternary ammonium compound. Its use as treatment adjunct in peptic ulcer has been replaced by the use of more effective agents. Depending on the dose, anisotropine methylbromide may reduce the motility and secretory activity of the gastrointestinal system, and the tone of the ureter and urinary bladder and may have a slight relaxant action on the bile ducts and gallbladder. In general, smaller doses of anisotropine methylbromide inhibit salivary and bronchial secretions, sweating, and accommodation; cause dilatation of the pupil; and increase the heart rate. Larger doses are required to decrease motility of the gastrointestinal and urinary tracts and to inhibit gastric acid secretion. Quaternary ammonium compounds such as anisotropine methylbromide inhibit the muscarinic actions of acetylcholine on structures innervated by postganglionic cholinergic nerves as well as on smooth muscles that respond to acetylcholine but lack cholinergic innervation. These postganglionic receptor sites are present in the autonomic effector cells of the smooth muscle, cardiac muscle, sinoatrial and atrioventricular nodes, and exocrine glands. Gastrointestinal absorption is poor and irregular. Total absorption after an oral dose is about 10 to 25%. Not Known Hepatic, by enzymatic hydrolysis. Not Known Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Weiner, N. and Gordon, S.M.; US. Patent 2,962,499; November 29,1960; assigned to Endo
Albendazole | DrugBank Online A benzimidazole broad-spectrum anthelmintic structurally related to mebendazole that is effective against many diseases. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p38) For the treatment of parenchymal neurocysticercosis due to active lesions caused by larval forms of the pork tapeworm, Taenia solium and for the treatment of cystic hydatid disease of the liver, lung, and peritoneum, caused by the larval form of the dog tapeworm, Echinococcus granulosus. Albendazole is a broad-spectrum anthelmintic. The principal mode of action for albendazole is by its inhibitory effect on tubulin polymerization which results in the loss of cytoplasmic microtubules. Albendazole causes degenerative alterations in the tegument and intestinal cells of the worm by diminishing its energy production, ultimately leading to immobilization and death of the parasite. It works by binding to the colchicine-sensitive site of tubulin, thus inhibiting its polymerization or assembly into microtubules. As cytoplasmic microtubules are critical in promoting glucose uptake in larval and adult stages of the susceptible parasites, the glycogen stores of the parasites are depleted. Degenerative changes in the endoplasmic reticulum, the mitochondria of the germinal layer, and the subsequent release of lysosomes result in decreased production of adenosine triphosphate (ATP), which is the energy required for the survival of the helminth.  Poorly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract due to its low aqueous solubility. Oral bioavailability appears to be enhanced when coadministered with a fatty meal (estimated fat content 40 g) 70% bound to plasma protein Hepatic. Rapidly converted in the liver to the primary metabolite, albendazole sulfoxide, which is further metabolized to albendazole sulfone and other primary oxidative metabolites that have been identified in human urine. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Albendazole is rapidly converted in the liver to the primary metabolite, albendazole sulfoxide, which is further metabolized to albendazole sulfone and other primary oxidative metabolites that have been identified in human urine. Urinary excretion of albendazole sulfoxide is a minor elimination pathway with less than 1% of the dose recovered in the urine. Biliary elimination presumably accounts for a portion of the elimination as evidenced by biliary concentrations of albendazole sulfoxide similar to those achieved in plasma. Terminal elimination half-life ranges from 8 to 12 hours (single dose, 400mg). Symptoms of overdose include elevated liver enzymes, headaches, hair loss, low levels of white blood cells (neutropenia), fever, and itching. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Gyurik, R.J. and Theodorides, VJ.; US. Patent 3,915,986; October 28,1975; assigned to
Carteolol | DrugBank Online A beta-adrenergic antagonist used as an anti-arrhythmia agent, an anti-angina agent, an antihypertensive agent, and an antiglaucoma agent. For the treatment of intraocular hypertension and chronic open-angle glaucoma Carteolol is a beta1 and beta2 (non-selective) adrenergic receptor-blocking agent that does not have significant intrinsic sympathomimetic, direct myocardial depressant, or local anesthetic (membrane-stabilizing) activity. Carteolol, when applied topically to the eye, has the action of reducing elevated, as well as normal, intraocular pressure, whether or not accompanied by glaucoma. Elevated intraocular pressure is a major risk factor in the pathogenesis of glaucomatous visual field loss and optic nerve damage. Carteolol reduces intraocular pressure with little or no effect on pupil size or accommodation in contrast to the miosis which cholinergic agents are known to produce. The primary mechanism of the ocular hypotensive action of carteolol in reducing intraocular pressure is most likely a decrease in aqueous humor production. This process is initiated by the non-selective beta1 and beta2 adrenergic receptor blockade. Hepatic. Hover over products below to view reaction partners The most common effects expected with overdosage of a beta-adrenergic blocking agent are bradycardia, bronchospasm, congestive heart failure and hypotension. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Tamura,Y., Nakagawa,K., Yoshizaki,S.and Murakami,N.; U.S.Patent 3,910,924; October 7,
Bentiromide | DrugBank Online Bentiromide is a dipeptide that is used in the bentiromide test, which is a screening test for evaluating pancreatic exocrine function and monitoring the adequacy of supplemental pancreatic therapy. It is typically administered orally. Cases of headache and gastrointestinal disturbances have been reported with the use of bentiromide. Bentiromide is currently not available in the U.S. or Canada. Indicated as a screening test for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and to monitor the adequacy of supplemental pancreatic therapy. Bentiromide is a peptide used as a screening test for exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and to monitor the adequacy of supplemental pancreatic therapy. The amount of p-aminobenzoic acid and its metabolites excreted in the urine is the quantitative measure of the chymotrypsin-secreting activity of the pancreas.  Bentiromide is a peptide that is broken down in the pancreas by chymotrypsin. By determining the output of unchanged bentiromide in the urine following oral administration, it is possible to determine the sufficiency of pancreatic activity. Primarily hepatic. Enzymatic activity capable of hydrolyzing bentiromide has also been found in normal small intestine. Symptoms of overdose include shortness of breath and troubled breathing. DeBenneville, P.L.and Greenberger, N.J.; U.S. Patent 3,745,212; July 10,1973; assigned to
Cefdinir | DrugBank Online Cefdinir, also known as Omnicef, is a semi-synthetic, broad-spectrum antibiotic belonging to the third generation of the cephalosporin class. It has been proven to be effective for the treatment of common bacterial infections in the ear, sinus, throat, lungs, and skin. Cefdinir was approved by the FDA in 1997 to treat a variety of mild to moderate infections and was initially marketed by Abbvie.6 Because of its chemical structure, it is effective against organisms that are resistant to first-line cephalosporin therapy due to the production of beta-lactamase enzymes.2,3 Cefdinir is indicated to treat acute bacterial otitis media, acute maxillary sinusitis, community-acquired (CA) pneumonia, acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis, pharyngitis/tonsillitis, and uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections in children and adults.14,6 The organisms susceptible to cefdinir have been listed below in addition to their associated clinical condition that may be treated with cefdinir.14 Various beta-lactamase producing organisms may be treated, as indicated in certain sections below. Respiratory
Acute bacterial exacerbations of chronic bronchitis caused by Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillin-susceptible only), and Moraxella catarrhalis Community-acquired pneumonia caused by Haemophilus influenzae, Haemophilus parainfluenzae, Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillin-susceptible only), and Moraxella catarrhalis Ear, nose, and throat
Acute bacterial otitis media caused by Haemophilus influenzae, Moraxella catarrhalis, and Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillin-susceptible only) Tonsillitis caused by Streptococcus pyogenes Pharyngitis caused by Streptococcus pyogenes Acute maxillary sinusitis caused by Haemophilus pneumoniae and Streptococcus pneumoniae (penicillin-susceptible only), and Moraxella catarrhalis Skin and skin structure infections Uncomplicated skin and skin structure infections caused by Staphylococcus aureus and Streptococcus pyogenes Cefdinir is a bactericidal agent that treats bacterial infections by interfering with cell wall synthesis.14
Cefdinir exerts broad-spectrum activity against a variety of gram-positive and gram-negative bacterial infections. It is effective against several beta-lactamase enzyme producing bacteria. As a result, many organisms that are resistant to other cephalosporins may be susceptible to cefdinir.3,4,17 Five-member thiazolidine rings that make up penicillins are replaced in cephalosporins by a six-member dihydrothiazine ring, conferring greater bactericidal activity. This This 6-member ring enables cefdinir and other cephalosporins to resist inactivation by certain bacterial enzymes.12 With a mechanism similar to other beta-lactam antibiotics, the bactericidal activity of cefdinir is caused by the inhibition of cell wall synthesis via binding to penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs). Cefdinir, like other cephalosporins, penetrates the bacterial cell wall, combats inactivation by beta-lactamase enzymes, and inactivates penicillin-binding proteins.12 This interferes with the final step of transpeptidation in cell walls, eventually leading to cell lysis, which eventually leads to the death of bacteria that are susceptible to this drug.2 Cefdinir has shown affinity to penicillin protein binding proteins 2 and 3. 7,8,9 It has also been shown to inhibit transpeptidase enzymes of various bacteria, which may play a role in its bactericidal action.10,11 One in vitro study suggests that cefdinir inhibits myeloperoxidase release extracellularly.13 The impact of this potential drug target in relation to its mechanism of action is unknown. Maximal plasma cefdinir concentration can be attained between 2-4 hours after an ingested dose.14 The bioavailability of cefdinir depends on the formulation used. The estimated bioavailability of cefdinir in the capsule form is approximately 16%-21%, depending on the dose. Absolute bioavailability after the administration of a suspension of cefdinir is 25%.2. The Cmax of cefdinir is 1.60 μg/mL after a 300 mg dose with an AUC of 7.05. Cmax is 2.87 μg/mL after a 600 mg dose with an AUC of 11.14 A meal high in fat can reduce the absorption of cefdinir by up to 15%, however, this is not a cause for clinically significant changes, therefore cefdinir may be taken with or without food.14 When given with aluminum or magnesium-containing antacids or iron, cefdinir absorption may decrease. It is recommended to allow 2 hours between cefdinir administration and the administration of these agents.2 The average volume of distribution of cefdinir in adults is about 0.35 L/kg and 0.67 L/kg in children.14,18 Another resource estimates the volume of distribution in adults at 1.56–2.09 L/kg.2 Cefdinir is found to be distributed in various tissues at clinically effective concentrations. It may be found in the epithelial lining fluid, bronchial mucosa, tonsils, sinuses, skin blister fluid, as well as the middle ear fluid.2 Third-generation cephalosporins such as cefdinir cross the blood-brain barrier and are found in high concentrations in the cerebrospinal fluid, unlike their first and second generation counterparts.12 The wide tissue distribution of cefdinir allows it to treat a variety of infections throughout the body. The plasma protein binding of cefdinir ranges from 60% to approximately 70%.2,14 This drug is not significantly metabolized and its pharmacological actions are mainly attributed to the parent drug.2,14 This drug is mainly excreted by the kidneys. Dose adjustments may be required for patients with renal impairment or patients on dialysis.14 Approximately 18.4% of a 300 mg dose of cefdinir was found unchanged in the urine after a 300 mg dose was administered during a pharmacokinetic study of 21 individuals.18 A large proportion of the administered dose is excreted in the feces, although the majority is found in the urine.12 The average plasma elimination half-life is about 1.7 hours in adults.14 In children and healthy infants, plasma elimination half-life ranges from 1.2–1.5 hours.2 The renal clearance in healthy adults in a pharmacokinetic study was 2.0 (± 1.0) mL/min/kg and the clearance in patients with renal failure was lower, decreasing in proportion to the degree of renal impairment.18 Dose adjustment is required in patients with renal impairment.14 LD50 information
Benazepril | DrugBank Online Benazepril, brand name Lotensin, is a medication used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension), congestive heart failure, and chronic renal failure3,2. Upon cleavage of its ester group by the liver, benazepril is converted into its active form benazeprilat, a non-sulfhydryl angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor1. Benazepril is indicated for the treatment of hypertension5. It may be used alone or in combination with thiazide diureticsLabel. Benazepril, an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor, is a prodrug which, when hydrolyzed by esterases to its active Benazeprilat1, is used to treat hypertension and heart failure, to reduce proteinuria and renal disease in patients with nephropathies, and to prevent stroke, myocardial infarction, and cardiac death in high-risk patients5,3,2. Benazepril and Benazeprilat inhibit angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) in human subjects and animals5,1. ACE is a peptidyl dipeptidase that catalyzes the conversion of angiotensin I to the vasoconstrictor substance, angiotensin IILabel. Angiotensin II also stimulates aldosterone secretion by the adrenal cortexLabel. Benazeprilat, the active metabolite of Benazepril, competes with angiotensin I for binding at the angiotensin-converting enzyme, blocking the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin IILabel. Inhibition of ACE results in decreased plasma angiotensin IILabel. As angiotensin II is a vasoconstrictor and a negative-feedback mediator for renin activity, lower concentrations result in a decrease in blood pressure and stimulation of baroreceptor reflex mechanisms, which leads to decreased vasopressor activity and to decreased aldosterone secretionLabel. Bioavailability of oral dosing is 3% to 4% in horses6. In humans at least 37% of oral benazepril is absorbed and reaches peak plasma concentration in 0.5 hours to 1 hour7. Other studies have shown a peak plasma concentration at a median of 1.5 hours1. The final population pharmacokinetic model in one study estimated the volume of distribution to be 203±69.9L8. Benazepril is 96.7% protein bound while benazeprilat is 95.3% protein boundLabel. Cleavage of the ester group (primarily in the liver) converts benazepril to its active metabolite, benazeprilatLabel. Benazepril and benazeprilat are conjugated to glucuronic acid prior to urinary excretionLabel. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Benazepril and benazeprilat are cleared predominantly by renal excretion in healthy subjects with normal renal functionLabel. Nonrenal (i.e., biliary) excretion accounts for approximately 11%-12% of benazeprilat excretion in healthy subjectsLabel. The half life of the prodrug benazepril is 2.7±8.5h1.
The half life of the active metabolite benazeprilat is 22.3±9.2h1
Amoxapine | DrugBank Online Amoxapine, the N-demethylated derivative of the antipsychotic agent loxapine, is a dibenzoxazepine-derivative tricyclic antidepressant (TCA). TCAs are structurally similar to phenothiazines. They contain a tricyclic ring system with an alkyl amine substituent on the central ring. In non-depressed individuals, amoxapine does not affect mood or arousal, but may cause sedation. In depressed individuals, amoxapine exerts a positive effect on mood. TCAs are potent inhibitors of serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake. In addition, TCAs down-regulate cerebral cortical β-adrenergic receptors and sensitize post-synaptic serotonergic receptors with chronic use. The antidepressant effects of TCAs are thought to be due to an overall increase in serotonergic neurotransmission. TCAs also block histamine H1 receptors, α1-adrenergic receptors and muscarinic receptors, which accounts for their sedative, hypotensive and anticholinergic effects (e.g. blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, urinary retention), respectively. See toxicity section below for a complete listing of side effects. Amoxapine may be used to treat neurotic and reactive depressive disorders, endogenous and psychotic depression, and mixed symptoms of depression and anxiety or agitation. For the relief of symptoms of depression in patients with neurotic or reactive depressive disorders as well as endogenous and psychotic depressions. May also be used to treat depression accompanied by anxiety or agitation. Amoxapine is a tricyclic antidepressant of the dibenzoxazepine class, chemically distinct from the dibenzodiazepines, dibenzocycloheptenes, and dibenzoxepines. It has a mild sedative component to its action. The mechanism of its clinical action in man is not well understood. In animals, amoxapine reduced the uptake of nor-epinephirine and serotonin and blocked the response of dopamine receptors to dopamine. Amoxapine is not a monoamine oxidase inhibitor. Clinical studies have demonstrated that amoxapine has a more rapid onset of action than either amitriptyline or imipramine Amoxapine acts by decreasing the reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin (5-HT). Rapidly and almost completely absorbed from the GI tract. Peak plasma concentrations occur within 1-2 hours of oral administration of a single dose.  Widely distributed in body tissues with highest concentrations found in lungs, spleen, kidneys, heart, and brain. Lower concentrations can be detected in testes and muscle.  In vitro tests show that amoxapine binding to human plasma proteins is approximately 90%. Amoxapine is almost completely metabolized in the liver to its major metabolite, 8-hydroxyamoxapine, and a minor metabolite, 7-hydroxyamoxapine. Both metabolites are phamacologically inactive and have half-lives of approximately 30 and 6.5 hours, respectively.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners 60-69% of a single orally administered dose of amoxapine is excreted in urine, principally as conjugated metabolites. 7-18% of the dose is excrete feces mainly as unconjugated metabolites. Less than 5% of the dose is excreted as unchanged drug in urine.  8 hours Toxic manifestations of amoxapine overdosage differ significantly from those of other tricyclic antidepressants. Serious cardiovascular effects are seldom if ever observed. However, CNS effects, particularly grand mal convulsions, occur frequently, and treatment should be directed primarily toward prevention or control of seizures. Status epilepticus may develop and constitutes a neurologic emergency. Coma and acidosis are other serious complications of substantial amoxapine overdosage in some cases. Renal failure may develop two to five days after toxic overdose in patients who may appear otherwise recovered. Acute tubular necrosis with rhabdomuolysis and myolobinurla is the most common renal complication in such cases. This reaction probably occurs in less than 5% of overdose cases, and typically in those who have experienced multiple seizures. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Howell, C.F., Hardy, R.A., Jr. and Quinones, N.Q.; US. Patent 3,663,696; May 16, 1972; assigned to American Cyanamid Company
Fluorouracil | DrugBank Online A pyrimidine analog that is an antineoplastic antimetabolite. It interferes with DNA synthesis by blocking the thymidylate synthetase conversion of deoxyuridylic acid to thymidylic acid. For the topical treatment of multiple actinic or solar keratoses. In the 5% strength it is also useful in the treatment of superficial basal cell carcinomas when conventional methods are impractical, such as with multiple lesions or difficult treatment sites. Fluorouracil injection is indicated in the palliative management of some types of cancer, including colon, esophageal, gastric, rectum, breast, biliary tract, stomach, head and neck, cervical, pancreas, renal cell, and carcinoid. Fluorouracil is an antineoplastic anti-metabolite. Anti-metabolites masquerade as purine or pyrimidine - which become the building blocks of DNA. They prevent these substances from becoming incorporated into DNA during the "S" phase (of the cell cycle), stopping normal development and division. Fluorouracil blocks an enzyme which converts the cytosine nucleotide into the deoxy derivative. In addition, DNA synthesis is further inhibited because Fluorouracil blocks the incorporation of the thymidine nucleotide into the DNA strand. The precise mechanism of action has not been fully determined, but the main mechanism of fluorouracil is thought to be the binding of the deoxyribonucleotide of the drug (FdUMP) and the folate cofactor, N5–10-methylenetetrahydrofolate, to thymidylate synthase (TS) to form a covalently bound ternary complex. This results in the inhibition of the formation of thymidylate from uracil, which leads to the inhibition of DNA and RNA synthesis and cell death. Fluorouracil can also be incorporated into RNA in place of uridine triphosphate (UTP), producing a fraudulent RNA and interfering with RNA processing and protein synthesis. 28-100% 8-12% Hepatic. The catabolic metabolism of fluorouracil results in degradation products ( e.g., CO2, urea and α-fluoro-ß-alanine) which are inactive.  Seven percent to 20% of the parent drug is excreted unchanged in the urine in 6 hours; of this over 90% is excreted in the first hour.
Desoximetasone | DrugBank Online A topical anti-inflammatory glucocorticoid used in dermatoses, skin allergies, psoriasis, etc. For the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. Like other topical corticosteroids, desoximetasone has anti-inflammatory, antipruritic, and vasoconstrictive properties. Once absorbed through the skin, topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids. Desoximetasone is a potent topical corticosteroid that should not be used with occlusive dressings. It is recommended that treatment should be limited to 2 consecutive weeks and therapy should be discontinued when adequate results have been achieved. The precise mechanism of the antiinflammatory activity of topical steroids in the treatment of steroid-responsive dermatoses, in general, is uncertain. However, corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins, collectively called lipocortins. This is achieved first by the drug binding to the glucocorticoid receptors which then translocates into the nucleus and binds to DNA causing various activations and repressions of genes. It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid. Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2. Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from intact healthy skin. The extent of percutaneous absorption of topical corticosteroids is determined by many factors, including the vehicle and the integrity of the epidermal barrier. Occlusion, inflammation and/or other disease processes in the skin may also increase percutaneous absorption. Bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees. Metabolized, primarily in the liver, and then excreted by the kidneys. Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees, are metabolized primarily in the liver and excreted by the kidneys. Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile.Pharmacokinetic studies in men with Desoximetasone Cream USP, 0.25% with tagged desoximetasone showed a total of 5.2% ± 2.9% excretion in urine (4.1% ± 2.3%) and feces (1.1% ± 0.6%) The half-life of the material was 15 ± 2 hours (for urine) and 17 ± 2 hours (for feces) between the third and fifth trial day. Topically applied desoximetasone can be absorbed in sufficient amounts to produce systemic effects. Symptoms of overdose include thinning of skin and suppression of adrenal cortex (decreased ability to respond to stress). Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Kieslich, K., Kerb, U. and Raspe, G.; U S . Patent 3,232,839; February 1,1966; assigned to
Zanamivir | DrugBank Online A guanido-neuraminic acid that is used to inhibit neuraminidase. For the prevention and treatment of influenza A and B. Zanamivir, an antiviral agent, is a neuraminidase inhibitor indicated for treatment of uncomplicated acute illness due to influenza A and B virus in adults and pediatric patients 7 years and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 2 days. Zanamivir has also been shown to significantly inhibit the human sialidases NEU3 and NEU2 in the micromolar range (Ki 3.7 +/-0.48 and 12.9+/-0.07 microM, respectively), which could account for some of the rare side effects of zanamivir. The proposed mechanism of action of zanamivir is via inhibition of influenza virus neuraminidase with the possibility of alteration of virus particle aggregation and release. By binding and inhibiting the neuraminidase protein, the drug renders the influenza virus unable to escape its host cell and infect others. Absolute bioavailability is very low following oral administration (2%). Following oral inhalation, bioavailability is 4% to 17%. Zanamivir has limited plasma protein binding (<10%). Not metabolized It is excreted unchanged in the urine with excretion of a single dose completed within 24 hours.
Carbamazepine | DrugBank Online Carbamazepine, also known as Tegretol, is an anticonvulsant drug and analgesic drug used to control seizures and to treat pain resulting from trigeminal neuralgia. It was initially approved by the FDA in 1965.3 Aside from the above uses, this drug is also given to control the symptoms of bipolar 1.16 Interestingly, carbamazepine was the first anticonvulsant used to treat individuals with bipolar disorder.6 Carbamazepine is indicated for the treatment of epilepsy and pain associated with true trigeminal neuralgia.16 In particular, carbamazepine has shown efficacy in treating mixed seizures, partial seizures with complex symptoms, and generalized tonic-clonic seizures.3,16 Carbamazepine is also indicated for the treatment of manic episodes and mixed manic-depressive episodes caused by bipolar I disorder.16 Some off-label, unapproved uses of carbamazepine include the treatment of alcohol withdrawal syndrome and restless leg syndrome.9,10 General effects Carbamazepine treats seizures and the symptoms of trigeminal neuralgia by inhibiting sodium channels. In bipolar 1 disorder, carbamazepine has been found to decrease mania symptoms in a clinically significant manner according to the Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS).16 Carbamazepine has a narrow therapeutic index.3 A note on genetic variation and carbamazepine use In studies of Han Chinese ancestry patients, a pronounced association between the HLA-B*1502 genotype and Steven Johnson syndrome and/or toxic epidermal necrolysis (SJS/TEN) resulting from carbamazepine use was observed.7 Carbamazepine's mechanism of action is not fully elucidated and is widely debated.5 One major hypothesis is that carbamazepine inhibits sodium channel firing, treating seizure activity. Animal research studies have demonstrated that carbamazepine exerts its effects by lowering polysynaptic nerve response and inhibiting post-tetanic potentiation. In both cats and rats, carbamazepine was shown to decrease pain caused by infraorbital nerve stimulation. A decrease in the action potential in the nucleus ventralis of the thalamus in the brain and inhibition of the lingual mandibular reflex were observed in other studies after carbamazepine use. Carbamazepine causes the above effects by binding to voltage-dependent sodium channels and preventing action potentials, which normally lead to stimulatory effects on nerves.8,15 In bipolar disorder, carbamazepine is thought to increase dopamine turnover and increase GABA transmission, treating manic and depressive symptoms.19 A common issue that has arisen is resistance to this drug in up to 30% of epileptic patients, which may occur to altered metabolism in patients with variant genotypes.13 A potential therapeutic target to combat carbamazepine resistance has recently been identified as the EPHX1 gene promoter, potentially conferring resistance to carbamazepine through methylation.14 The bioavailability of carbamazepine is in the range of 75-85% of an ingested dose.3 After one 200 mg oral extended-release dose of carbamazepine in a pharmacokinetic study, the Cmax carbamazepine was measured to be 1.9 ± 0.3 mcg/mL. The Tmax was 19 ± 7 hours. After several doses of 800 mg every 12 hours, the peak concentrations of carbamazepine were measured to be 11.0 ± 2.5 mcg/mL. The Tmax was reduced to 5.9 ± 1.8 hours. Extended-release carbamazepine demonstrated linear pharmacokinetics over a range of 200–800 mg.16  Effect of food on absorption A meal containing high-fat content increased the rate of absorption of one 400 mg dose but not the AUC of carbamazepine.16 The elimination half-life remained unchanged between fed and fasting state. The pharmacokinetics of an extended-release carbamazepine dose was demonstrated to be similar when administered in the fasted state or with food.16 Based on these findings, food intake is unlikely to exert significant effects on carbamazepine absorption. The volume of distribution of carbamazepine was found to be 1.0 L/kg in one pharmacokinetic study.4 Another study indicates that the volume of distribution of carbamazepine ranges between 0.7 to 1.4 L/kg.11. Carbamazepine crosses the placenta, and higher concentrations of this drug are found in the liver and kidney as opposed to lung and brain tissue.16 Carbamazepine crosses variably through the blood-brain barrier.13 Carbamazepine is 75%-80% bound to plasma proteins.3,16 One pharmacokinetic study indicates that it is 72% bound to plasma proteins.11 Carbamazepine is largely metabolized in the liver. CYP3A4 hepatic enzyme is the major enzyme that metabolizes carbamazepine to its active metabolite, carbamazepine-10,11-epoxide12, which is further metabolized to its trans-diol form by the enzyme epoxide hydrolase.16 Other hepatic cytochrome enzymes that contribute to the metabolism of carbamazepine are CYP2C8, CYP3A5, and CYP2B6.17 Carbamazepine also undergoes hepatic glucuronidation by UGT2B7 enzyme and several other metabolic reactions occur, resulting in the formation of minor hydroxy metabolites and quinone metabolites.17 Interestingly, carbamazepine induces its own metabolism.16 This leads to enhanced clearance, reduced half-life, and a reduction in serum levels of carbamazepine.3,16 Hover over products below to view reaction partners After an oral dose of radiolabeled carbamazepine, 72% of the administered radioactive dose was detected in the urine and the remainder of the ingested dose was found in the feces. Carbamazepine is mainly excreted as hydroxylated and conjugated metabolites, and minimal amounts of unchanged drug.16 The mean elimination half-life of carbamazepine was 35 to 40 hours after one dose of carbamazepine extended-release formulations. The half-life ranged from 12-17 hours after several doses of carbamazepine.16 One pharmacokinetic study determined the elimination half-life of carbamazepine to range between 27 to 36.8 hours in healthy volunteers.11 In a pharmacokinetic study, the apparent oral clearance of carbamazepine was 25 ± 5 mL/min 11,16 after one dose of carbamazepine and 80 ± 30 mL/min after several doses.16 Toxicity information
Oral LDLO (female): 1920 mg/kg/17W (intermittent); Oral LDLO (male): 54 mg/kg/9D (intermittent)18
Valaciclovir | DrugBank Online Valaciclovir (valacyclovir), also known as Valtrex, is an antiviral drug that has been used to manage and treat various herpes infections for more than 2 decades. It was initially approved by the FDA in 1995 Label and marketed by GlaxoSmithKline 8. Valacyclovir is the L-valine ester of aciclovir. It is a member of the purine (guanine) nucleoside analog drug class 9. This class of drugs forms an important part of hepatitis, HIV, and cytomegalovirus drug regimens 4. One major use of valacyclovir is the treatment of genital herpes episodes or outbreaks. Genital herpes is a frequently diagnosed sexually transmitted disease which currently affects more than 400 million individuals worldwide. It is caused by infection with the herpes simplex virus (HSV). Infection with this virus is lifelong with periodic episodes of reactivation 5. Valacyclovir is a nucleoside analog DNA polymerase inhibitor indicated for Label:  Adults • Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) • Genital Herpes • Treatment of genital herpes lesions in immunocompetent patients (initial or recurrent episode) • Suppression of genital herpes lesions in immunocompetent or HIV-infected patients • Reduction of viral transmission • Herpes Zoster Pediatric Patients  • Cold Sores (Herpes Labialis) • Chickenpox  Limitations of use Label The efficacy and safety of valacyclovir have not been established in immunocompromised patients other than for the suppression of genital herpes in HIV-infected patients. Antiviral effects Valacyclovir shows varying levels of inhibition towards herpes simplex virus types 1 (HSV-1), 2 (HSV-2), Varicella Zoster Virus (VZV), Epstein-Barr virus (EBV), and cytomegalovirus (CMV). The quantitative relationship between the cell culture susceptibility of herpesviruses to antivirals and the clinical response of humans to the same antiviral therapy has not yet been elucidated. Sensitivity testing results, described by the concentration of drug needed to inhibit the growth of the virus by 50% in cell culture (EC50), vary widely depending on various factors Label. Clinical study results For the various conditions below, clinical study results are summarized as follows Label: Cold sores Immunocompetent volunteers with cold sores were observed following the administration of a 1-day regimen (2 grams of valacyclovir twice a day for 1 day followed by one day of placebo) or a 2-day regimen (2 grams of valacyclovir twice daily for two days). The average duration of cold sore episodes was approximately 1 day shorter in treated subjects when compared to subjects treated with placebo. A 2-day drug administration regimen of valacyclovir did not provide superior benefit over the 1-day regimen. There was no clinically significant difference observed between subjects receiving valacyclovir or placebo in the prevention of progression of cold sore lesions after the papular stage, indicating that timing of valacyclovir administration is an important consideration Label. Initial genital herpes episodes 643 immunocompetent adults with first-episode genital herpes who presented within 72 hours of symptom onset were randomized in a double-blind trial to receive 10 days of valacyclovir 1 gram twice daily (n = 323) or oral acyclovir 200 mg 5 times a day (n = 320). In both groups, the median time to healing of herpetic lesions was measured to be 9 days, and the median time to cessation of pain was found to be 5 days, with the median time to cessation of viral shedding was approximately 3 days. Recurrent genital herpes episodes The results of 3 separate studies of patients taking 3 to 5-day regimens of valacyclovir showed an average of 4 days to lesion healing, 2-3 days to resolution of pain associated with the lesions, with an average of 2 days until the cessation of viral shedding Label. These findings showed valacyclovir administration to show superior beneficial effects when compared to the findings associated with placebo administration.  A note on resistance The resistance of Herpes Simplex Virus and Varicella Zoster Virus to acyclovir can result from qualitative and quantitative changes in the viral TK and/or DNA polymerase. Clinical isolates of VZV with decreased susceptibility to acyclovir have been isolated from patients diagnosed with AIDS. A total of 522 TK-deficient mutants of VZV have been identified in these cases Label.  Valacyclovir is the L-valine ester of aciclovir. It is classified as a nucleoside analog DNA polymerase enzyme inhibitor. Aciclovir is a purine (guanine) nucleoside analog is a metabolite that heavily contributes to the pharmacological actions of valacyclovir. In fact, most of valacyclovir's activity is attributed to acyclovir 1. Valacyclovir is rapidly and almost completely converted in man to aciclovir and valine, likely by the enzyme valacyclovir hydrolase.
Aciclovir is a selective inhibitor of the herpes viruses, possessing in vitro activity against herpes simplex viruses (HSV) type 1 and type 2, varicella zoster virus (VZV), cytomegalovirus (CMV), Epstein-Barr Virus (EBV), as well as human herpesvirus 6 (HHV-6). Aciclovir has been shown to inhibit herpes virus DNA synthesis after it has been phosphorylated to the active triphosphate form 9. The first stage of drug phosphorylation for acyclovir requires activation by a virus-specific enzyme. In the case of HSV, VZV and EBV this enzyme is the viral thymidine kinase (TK), which is only found in virus-infected cells. The process of phosphorylation is completed (conversion from mono- to triphosphate) by cellular kinases. Acyclovir triphosphate competitively inhibits the virus DNA polymerase and incorporation of this agent results in DNA chain termination, stopping virus DNA synthesis and blocking virus replication 9. The inhibitory capabilities of acyclovir are highly selective due to the drug's strong affinity for thymidine kinase (TK)Label. In summary, the antiviral effects of valacyclovir are achieved in 3 ways Label:  1) competitive inhibition of viral DNA polymerase 2) incorporation and termination of the growing viral DNA chain 3) inactivation of the viral DNA polymerase. The higher level of antiviral activity of acyclovir against HSV compared with VZV is attributed to its more efficient phosphorylation by viral thymidine kinase (TK). After oral administration, valacyclovir hydrochloride is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal (GI) tract and converted to acyclovir and L-valine. The absolute bioavailability of acyclovir after administration of valacyclovir was measured at 54.5% ± 9.1% after the administration of a 1 gram oral dose of valacyclovir and a 350 mg intravenous (IV) acyclovir dose to 12 healthy subjects. Acyclovir (a metabolite of valacyclovir) bioavailability from the administration of this drug is not affected by the administration with food Label.  Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) penetration, determined by CSF/plasma AUC ratio, is approximately 25% for aciclovir and the metabolite 8-hydroxy-aciclovir (8-OH-ACV), and approximately 2.5% for the metabolite 9-(carboxymethoxy)methylguanine 9.  In a study of immunocompromised pediatric patients, the volume of distribution of a 15 ml/kg dose of valacyclovir was 1.34 ± 0.65 L/kg 6.  The binding of valacyclovir to human plasma proteins is low and ranges from 13.5% to 17.9% Label.  Valacyclovir is converted to acyclovir and L-valine via first-pass intestinal and/or hepatic metabolism. Acyclovir is also transformed, to a small extent, to inactive metabolites by aldehyde oxidase in addition to alcohol dehydrogenase and aldehyde dehydrogenase. Neither valacyclovir nor acyclovir is metabolized by cytochrome P450 enzymes Label.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners After oral administration of a single 1 gram dose of radiolabeled valacyclovir to 4 healthy subjects, 46% and 47% of administered radioactivity was measured in urine and feces, respectively, over 96 hours. Acyclovir accounted for 89% of the radioactivity excreted in the urine Label.  The plasma elimination half-life of acyclovir typically averaged 2.5 to 3.3 hours in several studies of valacyclovir in volunteers with normal renal function Label.  Renal clearance of acyclovir following the administration of a single 1 gram dose of valacylcovir to 12 healthy
Carbenicillin | DrugBank Online Broad-spectrum semisynthetic penicillin derivative used parenterally. It is susceptible to gastric juice and penicillinase and may damage platelet function. For the treatment of acute and chronic infections of the upper and lower urinary tract and in asymptomatic bacteriuria due to susceptible strains of bacteria. Carbenicillin is a semisynthetic penicillin. Though carbenicillin provides substantial in vitro activity against a variety of both gram-positive and gram-negative microorganisms, the most important aspect of its profile is in its antipseudomonal and antiproteal activity. Because of the high urine levels obtained following administration, carbenicillin has demonstrated clinical efficacy in urinary infections due to susceptible strains of: Escherichia coli, Proteus mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, Morganella morganii, Pseudomonas species, Providencia rettgeri, Enterobacter species, and Enterococci (S. faecalis). Free carbenicillin is the predominant pharmacologically active fraction of the salt. Carbenicillin exerts its antibacterial activity by interference with final cell wall synthesis of susceptible bacteria. Penicillins acylate the penicillin-sensitive transpeptidase C-terminal domain by opening the lactam ring. This inactivation of the enzyme prevents the formation of a cross-link of two linear peptidoglycan strands, inhibiting the third and last stage of bacterial cell wall synthesis. Cell lysis is then mediated by bacterial cell wall autolytic enzymes such as autolysins; it is possible that carbenicillin interferes with an autolysin inhibitor. Rapidly absorbed from the small intestine following oral administration. Oral bioavailability is 30 to 40%. 30 to 60% Minimal. 1 hour Carbenicillin blood levels achievable are very low, and toxic reactions as a function of overdosage should not occur systematically. The oral LD50 in mice is 3,600 mg/kg, in rats 2,000 mg/kg, and in dogs is in excess of 500 mg/kg. The lethal human dose is not known. Symptoms of overdose include diarrhea, nausea, stomach upset, and vomiting. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Brain, E.G. and Nayler, J.H.C.; US. Patents 3,282,926; November 1,1966 and 3,492,291;
Levocarnitine | DrugBank Online Constituent of striated muscle and liver. It is used therapeutically to stimulate gastric and pancreatic secretions and in the treatment of hyperlipoproteinemias. For treatment of primary systemic carnitine deficiency, a genetic impairment of normal biosynthesis or utilization of levocarnitine from dietary sources, or for the treatment of secondary carnitine deficiency resulting from an inborn error of metabolism such as glutaric aciduria II, methyl malonic aciduria, propionic acidemia, and medium chain fatty acylCoA dehydrogenase deficiency. Used therapeutically to stimulate gastric and pancreatic secretions and in the treatment of hyperlipoproteinemias. Parenteral levocarnitine is indicated for the prevention and treatment of carnitine deficiency in patients with end-stage renal disease. Levocarnitine is a carrier molecule in the transport of long chain fatty acids across the inner mitochondrial membrane. It also exports acyl groups from subcellular organelles and from cells to urine before they accumulate to toxic concentrations. Lack of carnitine can lead to liver, heart, and muscle problems. Carnitine deficiency is defined biochemically as abnormally low plasma concentrations of free carnitine, less than 20 µmol/L at one week post term and may be associated with low tissue and/or urine concentrations. Further, this condition may be associated with a plasma concentration ratio of acylcarnitine/levocarnitine greater than 0.4 or abnormally elevated concentrations of acylcarnitine in the urine. Only the L isomer of carnitine (sometimes called vitamin BT) affects lipid metabolism. The "vitamin BT" form actually contains D,L-carnitine, which competitively inhibits levocarnitine and can cause deficiency. Levocarnitine can be used therapeutically to stimulate gastric and pancreatic secretions and in the treatment of hyperlipoproteinemias. Levocarnitine can be synthesised within the body from the amino acids lysine or methionine. Vitamin C (ascorbic acid) is essential to the synthesis of carnitine. Levocarnitine is a carrier molecule in the transport of long chain fatty acids across the inner mitochondrial membrane. It also exports acyl groups from subcellular organelles and from cells to urine before they accumulate to toxic concentrations. Only the L isomer of carnitine (sometimes called vitamin BT) affects lipid metabolism. Levocarnitine is handled by several proteins in different pathways including carnitine transporters, carnitine translocases, carnitine acetyltransferases and carnitine palmitoyltransferases. Absolute bioavailability is 15% (tablets or solution).
Time to maximum plasma concentration was found to be 3.3 hours.  The steady state volume of distribution (Vss) of an intravenously administered dose, above endogenous baseline levels, was calculated to be 29.0 +/- 7.1L. However this value is predicted to be an underestimate of the true Vss.  None After oral administration L-carnitine which is unabsorbed is metabolized in the gastrointestinal tract by bacterial microflora. Major metabolites include trimethylamine N-oxide and [3H]-gamma-butyrobetaine. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Following a single intravenous dose, 73.1 +/- 16% of the dose was excreted in the urine during the 0-24 hour interval.
Enalapril | DrugBank Online Enalapril is a prodrug belonging to the angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor drug class that works on the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, which is responsible for the regulation of blood pressure and fluid and electrolyte homeostasis. Enalapril is an orally-active and long-acting nonsulphydryl antihypertensive agent that suppresses the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system to lower blood pressure. It was developed from a targeted research programmed using molecular modelling.2 Being a prodrug, enalapril is rapidly biotransformed into its active metabolite, enalaprilat, which is responsible for the pharmacological actions of enalapril. The active metabolite of enalapril competitively inhibits the ACE to hinder the production of angiotensin II, a key component of the renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system that promotes vasoconstriction and renal reabsorption of sodium ions in the kidneys. Ultimately, enalaprilat works to reduce blood pressure and blood fluid volume. Commonly marketed under the trade name Vasotec, enalapril was first approved by the FDA in 1985 for the management of hypertension, heart failure, and asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction. It is also found in a combination product containing hydrochlorothiazide that is used for the management of hypertension. The active metabolite enalaprilat is also available in oral tablets and intravenous formulations for injection. Indicated for the management of essential or renovascular hypertension 10 as monotherapy or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, such as thiazide diuretics, for an additive effect.Label Indicated for the treatment of symptomatic congestive heart failure, usually in combination with diuretics and digitalis.Label Indicated for the management of asymptomatic left ventricular dysfunction in patients with an ejection fraction of ≤ to 35 percent to decrease the rate of development of overt heart failure and the incidence of hospitalization for heart failure.Label Enalapril is an antihypertensive agent that exhibits natriuretic and uricosuric properties. Enalapril lowers blood pressure in all grades of essential and renovascular hypertension, and peripheral vascular resistance without causing an increase in heart rate.6 Individuals with low-renin hypertensive population were still responsive to enalapril.Label The duration of hypertensive effect in the systolic and diastolic blood pressure persists for at least 24 hours following initial administration of a single oral dose, and repeated daily administration of enalapril confers an additional reduction in blood pressure and a steady-state antihypertensive response may take several weeks.7 In patients with severe congestive heart failure and inadequate clinical response to conventional antihypertensive therapies, treatment with enalapril resulted in improvements in cardiac performance as observed by a reduction in both preload and afterload, and improved clinical status long-term.6 Furthermore, enalapril was shown to increase cardiac output and stroke volume while decreasing pulmonary capillary wedge pressure in patients with congestive heart failure refractory to conventional treatment with digitalis and diuretics. In clinical studies, enalapril reduced left ventricular mass, and did not affect cardiac function or myocardial perfusion during exercise.5 Enalapril is not highly associated with the risk of bradycardia unlike most diuretics and beta-blockers 6 and it does not produce rebound hypertension upon discontinuation of therapy.5  Enalapril is not reported to produce hypokalaemia, hyperglycaemia, hyperuricaemia or hypercholesterolaemia. In the kidneys, enalapril was shown to increase renal blood flow and decrease renal vascular resistance. It also augmented the glomerular filtration rate in patients with a glomerular filtration rate less than 80 mL/min.5 When used in combination, enalapril was shown to attenuate the extent of drug-induced hypokalemia caused by hydrochlorothiazide 6 and the antihypertensive effects of both drugs were potentiated.2 The renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) is a signaling pathway that works in synergism with the sympathetic system to regulate blood pressure and fluid and electrolyte homeostasis. Activation of this system upon stimulation by different factors, such as low blood pressure and nerve impulses, leads to increased release of norepinephrine (NE) from sympathetic nerve terminals and effects on the vascular growth, vasoconstriction, and salt retention in the kidneys.9 Renin is released from
Doxazosin | DrugBank Online Doxazosin is an alpha-1 antagonist used for the treatment of benign prostatic hypertrophy (BPH) symptoms and hypertension. Other members of this drug class include Prazosin, Terazosin, Tamsulosin, and Alfuzosin.8 Because of its long-lasting effects, doxazosin can be administered once a day.5 It is marketed by Pfizer and was initially approved by the FDA in 1990.20 Doxazosin is indicated to treat the symptoms of benign prostatic hypertrophy, which may include urinary frequency, urgency, and nocturia, among other symptoms. In addition, doxazosin is indicated alone or in combination with various antihypertensive agents for the management of hypertension.19 Off-label uses of doxazosin include the treatment of pediatric hypertension2 and the treatment of ureteric calculi.3 Doxazosin decreases standing and supine blood pressure5 and relieves the symptoms of benign prostatic hypertrophy through the inhibition of alpha-1 receptors.
Cyclothiazide | DrugBank Online As a diuretic, cyclothiazide inhibits active chloride reabsorption at the early distal tubule via the Na-Cl cotransporter, resulting in an increase in the excretion of sodium, chloride, and water. Thiazides like cyclothiazide also inhibit sodium ion transport across the renal tubular epithelium through binding to the thiazide sensitive sodium-chloride transporter. This results in an increase in potassium excretion via the sodium-potassium exchange mechanism. The antihypertensive mechanism of cyclothiazide is less well understood although it may be mediated through its action on carbonic anhydrases in the smooth muscle or through its action on the large-conductance calcium-activated potassium (KCa) channel, also found in the smooth muscle. Cyclothiazide is indicated as adjunctive therapy in edema associated with congestive heart failure, hepatic cirrhosis, and corticosteroid and estrogen therapy. It is also indicated in the management of hypertension either as the sole therapeutic agent or to enhance the effectiveness of other antihypertensive drugs in the more severe forms of hypertension. Cyclothiazide is indicated as adjunctive therapy in edema associated with congestive heart failure, hepatic cirrhosis, and corticosteroid and estrogen therapy. It is also indicated in the management of hypertension either as the sole therapeutic agent or to enhance the effectiveness of other antihypertensive drugs in the more severe forms of hypertension. Like other thiazides, cyclothiazide promotes water loss from the body (diuretics). It inhibits Na+/Cl- reabsorption from the distal convoluted tubules in the kidneys. Thiazides also cause loss of potassium and an increase in serum uric acid. Thiazides are often used to treat hypertension, but their hypotensive effects are not necessarily due to their diuretic activity. Thiazides have been shown to prevent hypertension-related morbidity and mortality although the mechanism is not fully understood. Thiazides cause vasodilation by activating calcium-activated potassium channels (large conductance) in vascular smooth muscles and inhibiting various carbonic anhydrases in vascular tissue. Cyclothiazide affects the distal renal tubular mechanism of electrolyte reabsorption. At maximal therapeutic dosages, all thiazides are approximately equal in their diuretic efficacy. Cyclothiazide increases excretion of sodium and chloride in approximately equivalent amounts. Natriuresis may be accompanied by some loss of potassium and bicarbonate. Hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic, inhibits water reabsorption in the nephron by inhibiting the sodium-chloride symporter (SLC12A3) in the distal convoluted tubule, which is responsible for 5% of total sodium reabsorption. Normally, the sodium-chloride symporter transports sodium and chloride from the lumen into the epithelial cell lining the distal convoluted tubule. The energy for this is provided by a sodium gradient established by sodium-potassium ATPases on the basolateral membrane. Once sodium has entered the cell, it is transported out into the basolateral interstitium via the sodium-potassium ATPase, causing an increase in the osmolarity of the interstitium, thereby establishing an osmotic gradient for water reabsorption. By blocking the sodium-chloride symporter, hydrochlorothiazide effectively reduces the osmotic gradient and water reabsorption throughout the nephron.Hydrochlorothiazide, a thiazide diuretic, inhibits water reabsorption in the nephron by inhibiting the sodium-chloride symporter (SLC12A3) in the distal convoluted tubule, which is responsible for 5% of total sodium reabsorption. Normally, the sodium-chloride symporter transports sodium and chloride from the lumen into the epithelial cell lining the distal convoluted tubule. The energy for this is provided by a sodium gradient established by sodium-potassium ATPases on the basolateral membrane. Once sodium has entered the cell, it is transported out into the basolateral interstitium via the sodium-potassium ATPase, causing an increase in the osmolarity of the interstitium, thereby establishing an osmotic gradient for water reabsorption. By blocking the sodium-chloride symporter, hydrochlorothiazide effectively reduces the osmotic gradient and water reabsorption throughout the nephron. Oral LD50 in mouse is > 10000 mg/kg, and > 4000 mg/kg in rat. Signs of overdose include those caused by electrolyte depletion (hypokalemia, hypochloremia, hyponatremia) and dehydration resulting from excessive diuresis. If digitalis has also been administered hypokalemia may accentuate cardiac arrhythmias. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Muller, E. and Hasspacher, K.; US. Patent 3,275,625; September 27,1966; assigned to
Chloroquine | DrugBank Online Chloroquine is an aminoquinolone derivative first developed in the 1940s for the treatment of malaria.4 It was the drug of choice to treat malaria until the development of newer antimalarials such as pyrimethamine, artemisinin, and mefloquine.17 Chloroquine and its derivative hydroxychloroquine have since been repurposed for the treatment of a number of other conditions including HIV, systemic lupus erythematosus, and rheumatoid arthritis.18 The FDA emergency use authorization for hydroxychloroquine and chloroquine in the treatment of COVID-19 was revoked on 15 June 2020.21 Chloroquine was granted FDA Approval on 31 October 1949.20 Chloroquine is indicated to treat infections of P. vivax, P. malariae, P. ovale, and susceptible strains of P. falciparum.19 It is also used to treat extraintestinal amebiasis.19 Chloroquine is also used off label for the treatment of rheumatic diseases,4 as well as treatment and prophylaxis of Zika virus.1,2 Chloroquine is currently undergoing clinical trials for the treatment of COVID-19.3 Chloroquine inhibits the action of heme polymerase, which causes the buildup of toxic heme in Plasmodium species.11 It has a long duration of action as the half life is 20-60 days.10 Patients should be counselled regarding the risk of retinopathy with long term usage or high dosage, muscle weakness, and toxicity in children.19 Chloroquine inhibits the action of heme polymerase in malarial trophozoites, preventing the conversion of heme to hemazoin.11,15,16 Plasmodium species continue to accumulate toxic heme, killing the parasite.11 Chloroquine passively diffuses through cell membranes and into endosomes, lysosomes, and Golgi vesicles; where it becomes protonated, trapping the chloroquine in the organelle and raising the surrounding pH.10,13 The raised pH in endosomes, prevent virus particles from utilizing their activity for fusion and entry into the cell.14 Chloroquine does not affect the level of ACE2 expression on cell surfaces, but inhibits terminal glycosylation of ACE2, the receptor that SARS-CoV and SARS-CoV-2 target for cell entry.13,14 ACE2 that is not in the glycosylated state may less efficiently interact with the SARS-CoV-2 spike protein, further inhibiting viral entry.14 Chloroquine oral solution has a bioavailability of 52-102% and oral tablets have a bioavailability of 67-114%.10 Intravenous chloroquine reaches a Cmax of 650-1300µg/L and oral chloroquine reaches a Cmax of 65-128µg/L with a Tmax of 0.5h.10 The volume of distribution of chloroquine is 200-800L/kg.10 Chloroquine is 46-74% bound to plasma proteins.9 (-)-chloroquine binds more strongly to alpha-1-acid glycoprotein and (+)-chloroquine binds more strongly to serum albumin.8 Chloroquine is N-dealkylated primarily by CYP2C8 and CYP3A4 to N-desethylchloroquine.5,6,7,10 It is N-dealkylated to a lesser extent by CYP3A5, CYP2D6, and to an ever lesser extent by CYP1A1.5,6,7,10 N-desethylchloroquine can be further N-dealkylated to N-bidesethylchloroquine, which is further N-dealkylated to 7-chloro-4-aminoquinoline.10 Hover over products below to view reaction partners Chloroquine is predominantly eliminated in the urine.10 50% of a dose is recovered in the urine as unchanged chloroquine, with 10% of the dose recovered in the urine as desethylchloroquine.10 The half life of chloroquine is 20-60 days.10 Chloroquine has a total plasma clearance of 0.35-1L/h/kg.10 Patients experiencing an overdose may present with headache, drowsiness, visual disturbances, nausea, vomiting, cardiovascular collapse, shock, convulsions, respiratory arrest, cardiac arrest, and hypokalemia.19 Overdose should be managed with symptomatic and supportive treatment which may include prompt emesis, gastric lavage, and activated charcoal.19 Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Andersag, H., Breitner, S.and Jung, H.; U S . Patent 2,233,970; March 4,1941; assigned to
Bisoprolol | DrugBank Online Bisoprolol is a cardioselective β1-adrenergic blocking agent used to treat high blood pressure.4,16 It is considered a potent drug with a long-half life that can be used once daily to reduce the need for multiple doses of antihypertensive drugs.4 Bisoprolol is generally well tolerated, likely due to its β1-adrenergic receptor selectivity and is a useful alternative to non-selective β-blocker drugs in the treatment of hypertension such as Carvedilol and Labetalol. It may be used alone or in combination with other drugs to manage hypertension16 and can be useful in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) due to its receptor selectivity.13 Bisoprolol is indicated for the treatment of mild to moderate hypertension.16 It may be used off-label to treat heart failure, atrial fibrillation, and angina pectoris.1,2 Bisoprolol decreases heart rate (chronotropy), decreases contractility (inotropy), and reduces blood pressure.14,16 The results of various clinical studies indicate that bisoprolol reduces cardiovascular mortality and all-cause mortality in patients with heart failure and decreased cardiac ejection fraction (EF).3,8  Though the mechanism of action of bisoprolol has not been fully elucidated in hypertension, it is thought that therapeutic effects are achieved through the antagonism of β-1adrenoceptors to result in lower cardiac output. Bisoprolol is a competitive, cardioselective β1-adrenergic antagonist. When β1-receptors (located mainly in the heart)14 are activated by adrenergic neurotransmitters such as epinephrine, both the blood pressure and heart rate increase, leading to greater cardiovascular work, increasing the demand for oxygen. Bisoprolol reduces cardiac workload by decreasing contractility and the need for oxygen through competitive inhibition of β1-adrenergic receptors.7,14 Bisoprolol is also thought to reduce the output of renin in the kidneys, which normally increases blood pressure. Additionally, some central nervous system effects of bisoprolol may include diminishing sympathetic nervous system output from the brain, decreasing blood pressure and heart rate.16 Bisoprolol is well absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract.17 The AUC is 642.87 g.hr/mL and bioavailability of bisoprolol is about 90% due to the minimal first pass effects.1 Absorption is unaffected by food intake. Peak plasma concentrations of bisoprolol are attained within 2-4 hours and steady-state concentrations are achieved within 5 days of administration.16 In a pharmacokinetic study, the mean peak concentration of bisoprolol was 52 micrograms/L.6 Cmax at steady state concentrations of bisoprolol is 64±21 ng/ml administered at 10 mg daily.17 The volume of distribution of bisoprolol is 3.5 L/kg.17 The mean volume of distribution was found to be 230 L/kg in heart failure patients, which was similar to the volume of distribution in healthy patients.10 Bisoprolol is known to cross the placenta.15 Binding to serum proteins is approximately 30%.9,17 About 50% of a single bisoprolol dose is metabolized mainly by the enzyme CYP3A4 to inactive metabolites.16 Bisoprolol is eliminated equally by both renal and hepatic pathways. About 50% of an oral dose is excreted unchanged in the urine with the remainder of the dose excreted as inactive bisoprolol metabolites. Under 2% of the ingested dose is found to be excreted in the feces.16,17 A pharmacokinetic study in 12 healthy individuals determined the mean plasma half-life of bisoprolol to be 10-12 hours.4 Another study comprised of healthy patients determined the elimination half-life to be approximately 10 hours.6 Renal impairment increased the half-life to 18.5 hours.6 Total body clearance in healthy patients was determined to be 14.2 L/h. In patients with renal impairment, clearance was reduced to 7.8 L/h. Hepatic dysfunction also reduced the clearance of bisoprolol.6 LD50 information
Furazolidone | DrugBank Online A nitrofuran derivative with antiprotozoal and antibacterial activity. Furazolidone binds bacterial DNA which leads to the gradual inhibition of monoamine oxidase. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p514) For the specific and symptomatic treatment of bacterial or protozoal diarrhea and enteritis caused by susceptible organisms. Furoxone has a broad antibacterial spectrum covering the majority of gastrointestinal tract pathogens including E. coli, staphylococci, Salmonella, Shigella, Proteus, Aerobacter aerogenes, Vibrio cholerae and Giardia lamblia. Its bactericidal activity is based upon its interference with DNA replication and protein production; this antimicrobial action minimizes the development of resistant organisms. Furazolidone and its related free radical products are believed to bind DNA and induce cross-links. Bacterial DNA is particularly susceptible to this drug leading to high levels of mutations (transitions and transversions) in the bacterial chromosome. Radiolabeled drug studies indicate that furazolidone is well absorbed following oral administration Furazolidone is rapidly and extensively metabolized; the primary metabolic pathway identified begins with nitro-reduction to the aminofuran derivative. Two major metabolites are produced: 3-amino-2-oxazolidone (AOZ) or beta-hydroxyethylhydrazine (HEH). AOZ is responsible for monoamine oxidase inhibition. Detoxification and elimination of the drug is done primarily by conjugation with glutathione. Hover over products below to view reaction partners 10 minutes Reactions to Furoxone have been reported including a fall in blood pressure, urticaria, fever, arthralgia, and a vesicular morbilliform rash. Other adverse effects can include a brown discoloration of the urine; hemolysis can occur in G6PDH-deficient patients. The drug has a monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitory effect and should never be given concurrently to individuals already taking MAO inhibitors. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Drake, G.D., Gever, G. and Hayes, K.J.; U.S. Patent 2,759,931; August 21, 1956; assigned to The Norwich Pharmacal Company.
Demeclocycline | DrugBank Online A tetracycline analog having a 7-chloro and a 6-methyl. Because it is excreted more slowly than tetracycline, it maintains effective blood levels for longer periods of time. Used primarily to treat Lyme disease, acne, and bronchitis. Also indicated (but rarely used) to treat urinary tract infections, gum disease, malaria, and other bacterial infections such as gonorrhea and chlamydia. One of its other registered uses is the treatment of hyponatremia (low blood sodium concentration) due to the syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormone (SIADH) where fluid restriction alone has been ineffective.  Demeclocycline is a tetracycline antibiotic active against the following microorganisms: Rickettsiae (Rocky Mountain spotted fever, typhus fever and the typhus group, Q fever, rickettsial pox, tick fevers), Mycoplasma pneumoniae (PPLO, Eaton agent), agents of psittacosis and ornithosis, agents of lymphogranulomavenereum and granuloma inguinale, the spirochetal agent of relapsing fever (Borrelia recurrentis), Haemophilus ducreyi (chancroid), Yersinia pestis, Pasteurella pestis and Pasteurella tularensis, Bartonella bacilliformis, Bacteroides species, Vibrio comma and Vibrio fetus, and Brucella species (in conjunction with streptomycin). Demeclocycline inhibits cell growth by inhibiting translation. Demeclocycline is lipophilic and can easily pass through the cell membrane or passively diffuses through porin channels in the bacterial membrane. Demeclocycline is not a direct bactericidal agent; rather, it is a bacteriostatic drug that impairs bacterial growth. Because it is excreted more slowly than tetracycline, it maintains effective blood levels for longer periods of time. Demeclocycline inhibits cell growth by inhibiting translation. It binds (reversibly) to the 30S and 50S ribosomal subunit and prevents the amino-acyl tRNA from binding to the A site of the ribosome, which impairs protein synthesis by bacteria. The binding is reversible in nature. The use in SIADH actually relies on a side-effect of tetracycline antibiotics; many may cause diabetes insipidus (dehydration due to the inability to concentrate urine). It is not completely understood why demeclocycline impairs the action of antidiuretic hormone, but it is thought that it blocks the binding of the hormone to its receptor. Tetracyclines are readily absorbed. 41-50% Hepatic Demeclocycline hydrochloride, like other tetracyclines, is concentrated in the liver and excreted into the bile where it is found in much higher concentrations than in the blood. Following a single 150 mg dose of demeclocycline hydrochloride in normal volunteers, 44% (n = 8) was excreted in urine and 13% and 46%, respectively, were excreted in feces in two patients within 96 hours as active drug. 10-17 hours Oral, rat: LD50 = 2372 mg/kg Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. McCormick, J.R.D., Hirsch, U., Jensen, E.R. and Sjolander, N.O.; U.S. Patent 2,878,289; March 17, 1959; assigned to American Cyanamid Company.
Szumski, S.A.; U.S. Patent 3,012,946; December 12,1961; assigned to American Cyanamid Company.
Goodman, J.J. and Matrishin, M.; U.S. Patent 3,019,172; assigned to American Cyanamid Company.
Goodman, J.J.; U.S. Patent 3,050,446; August 21, 1962; assigned to American Cyanamid Company.
Triamcinolone | DrugBank Online Triamcinolone is a corticosteroid used to treat various inflammatory conditions in the body from allergic rhinitis to acute exacerbations of multiple sclerosis.13 Triamcinolone can be used as a one time adjunct treatment of osteoarthritic knee pain,16 or first line as a topical treatment of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses.11 Triamcinolone is more commonly seen in the forms triamcinolone hexacetonide, triamcinolone acetonide, and triamcinolone diacetate.10,11,12,13,14,15,16 Triamcinolone was granted FDA approval on 3 December 1957.9 Triamcinolone hexacetonide injections are indicated for intralesional administration in alopecia areata, discoid lupus erythematosus, keloids, and necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum.10 This formulation can also be used for localized hypertrophic infiltrated inflammatory lesions of granuloma annulare, lichen planus, lichen simplex chronicus, and psoriatic plaques.10 Triamcinolone acetonide spray and cream are indicated for the treatment of inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses.11,14 A triamcinolone acetonide 10mg/mL or 40mg/mL injection is indicated intra-articularly for acute gouty arthritis, acute and subacute bursitis, acute nonspecific tenosynovitis, epicondylitis, rheumatoid arthritis, and synovitis of osteoarthritis.12,13 The same 10mg/mL injection is indicated by the intralesional route for the treatment of alopecia areata, discoid lupus erythematosus, keloids, necrobiosis lipoidica diabeticorum, and tumors of an aponeurosis or tendon.12 This formulation can also be used for localized hypertrophic infiltrated inflammatory lesions of granuloma annulare, lichen planus, lichen simplex chronicus, and psoriatic plaques.12 The 40mg/mL injection is indicated intramuscularly for controlling severe allergic conditions such as asthma, atopic dermatitis, contact dermatitis, drug hypersensitivity, perennial or seasonal allergic rhinitis, serum sickness, and transfusion reactions; treatment of bullous dermatitis herpetiformis, exfoliative erythroderma, mycosis fungoides, pemphigus, Stevens-Johnson syndrome, congenital adrenal hyperplasia, hypercalcemia in
Fluphenazine | DrugBank Online A phenothiazine used in the treatment of psychoses. Its properties and uses are generally similar to those of chlorpromazine. For management of manifestations of psychotic disorders. Fluphenazine is a trifluoro-methyl phenothiazine derivative intended for the management of schizophrenia and other psychotic disorders. Fluphenazine has not been shown effective in the management of behaviorial complications in patients with mental retardation. Fluphenazine blocks postsynaptic mesolimbic dopaminergic D1 and D2 receptors in the brain; depresses the release of hypothalamic and hypophyseal hormones and is believed to depress the reticular activating system thus affecting basal metabolism, body temperature, wakefulness, vasomotor tone, and emesis. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Ullyot, G.E.; U.S. Patent 3,058,979; October 16, 1962; assigned to Smith Kline & French
Simvastatin | DrugBank Online Simvastatin, also known as the brand name product Zocor, is a lipid-lowering drug derived synthetically from a fermentation product of Aspergillus terreus. It belongs to the statin class of medications, which are used to lower the risk of cardiovascular disease and manage abnormal lipid levels by inhibiting the endogenous production of cholesterol in the liver. More specifically, statin medications competitively inhibit the enzyme hydroxymethylglutaryl-coenzyme A (HMG-CoA) Reductase,2 which catalyzes the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonic acid and is the third step in a sequence of metabolic reactions involved in the production of several compounds involved in lipid metabolism and transport including cholesterol, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) (sometimes referred to as "bad cholesterol"), and very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL). Prescribing of statin medications is considered standard practice following any cardiovascular events and for people with a moderate to high risk of development of CVD, such as those with Type 2 Diabetes. The clear evidence of the benefit of statin use coupled with very minimal side effects or long term effects has resulted in this class becoming one of the most widely prescribed medications in North America.3,4 Simvastatin and other drugs from the statin class of medications including atorvastatin, pravastatin, rosuvastatin, fluvastatin, and lovastatin are considered first-line options for the treatment of dyslipidemia.3,4 Increasing use of the statin class of drugs is largely due to the fact that cardiovascular disease (CVD), which includes heart attack, atherosclerosis, angina, peripheral artery disease, and stroke, has become a leading cause of death in high-income countries and a major cause of morbidity around the world.5 Elevated cholesterol levels, and in particular, elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels, are an important risk factor for the development of CVD.3,16 Use of statins to target and reduce LDL levels has been shown in a number of landmark studies to significantly reduce the risk of development of CVD and all-cause mortality.6,7,8,9,10,14 Statins are considered a cost-effective treatment option for CVD due to their evidence of reducing all-cause mortality including fatal and non-fatal CVD as well as the need for surgical revascularization or angioplasty following a heart attack.3,4 Evidence has shown that even for low-risk individuals (with <10% risk of a major vascular event occurring within 5 years) statins cause a 20%-22% relative reduction in major cardiovascular events (heart attack, stroke, coronary revascularization, and coronary death) for every 1 mmol/L reduction in LDL without any significant side effects or risks.11,12 While all statin medications are considered equally effective from a clinical standpoint, rosuvastatin is considered the most potent; doses of 10 to 40mg rosuvastatin per day were found in clinical studies to result in a 45.8% to 54.6% decrease in LDL cholesterol levels, while simvastatin has been found to have an average decrease in LDL-C of ~35%.13,14,18 Potency is thought to correlate to tissue permeability as the more lipophilic statins such as simvastatin are thought to enter endothelial cells by passive diffusion, as opposed to hydrophilic statins such as pravastatin and rosuvastatin which are taken up into hepatocytes through OATP1B1 (organic anion transporter protein 1B1)-mediated transport.15,20 Despite these differences in potency, several trials have demonstrated only minimal differences in terms of clinical outcomes between statins.9 Simvastatin is indicated for the treatment of hyperlipidemia to reduce elevated total cholesterol (total-C), low-density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL‑C), apolipoprotein B (Apo B), and triglycerides (TG), and to increase high-density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL-C).28,29 This includes the treatment of primary hyperlipidemia (Fredrickson type IIa, heterozygous familial and nonfamilial), mixed dyslipidemia (Fredrickson type IIb), hypertriglyceridemia (Fredrickson type IV hyperlipidemia), primary dysbetalipoproteinemia (Fredrickson type III hyperlipidemia), homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) as an adjunct to other lipid-lowering treatments, as well as adolescent patients with Heterozygous Familial Hypercholesterolemia (HeFH).28,29 Simvastatin is also indicated to reduce the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality including myocardial infarction, stroke, and the need for revascularization procedures. It is primarily used in patients at high risk of coronary events because of existing coronary heart disease, diabetes, peripheral vessel disease, history of stroke or other cerebrovascular disease.28,29 Prescribing of statin medications is considered standard practice following any cardiovascular events and for people with a moderate to high risk of development of CVD. Statin-indicated conditions include diabetes mellitus, clinical atherosclerosis (including myocardial infarction, acute coronary syndromes, stable angina, documented coronary artery disease, stroke, trans ischemic attack (TIA), documented carotid disease, peripheral artery disease, and claudication), abdominal aortic aneurysm, chronic kidney disease, and severely elevated LDL-C levels.3,4 Simvastatin is an oral antilipemic agent which inhibits HMG-CoA reductase. It is used to lower total cholesterol, low density lipoprotein-cholesterol (LDL-C), apolipoprotein B (apoB), non-high density lipoprotein-cholesterol (non-HDL-C), and trigleride (TG) plasma concentrations while increasing HDL-C concentrations. High LDL-C, low HDL-C and high TG concentrations in the plasma are associated with increased risk of atherosclerosis and cardiovascular disease. The total cholesterol to HDL-C ratio is a strong predictor of coronary artery disease and high ratios are associated with higher risk of disease. Increased levels of HDL-C are associated with lower cardiovascular risk. By decreasing LDL-C and TG and increasing HDL-C, rosuvastatin reduces the risk of cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.3,4 Elevated cholesterol levels, and in particular, elevated low-density lipoprotein (LDL) levels, are an important risk factor for the development of CVD.3 Use of statins to target and reduce LDL levels has been shown in a number of landmark studies to significantly reduce the risk of development of CVD and all-cause mortality.6,7,8,9,10 Statins are considered a cost-effective treatment option for CVD due to their evidence of reducing all-cause mortality including fatal and non-fatal CVD as well as the need for surgical revascularization or angioplasty following a heart attack.3,4 Evidence has shown that even for low-risk individuals (with <10% risk of a major vascular event occurring within 5 years) statins cause a 20%-22% relative reduction in major cardiovascular events (heart attack, stroke, coronary revascularization, and coronary death) for every 1 mmol/L reduction in LDL without any significant side effects or risks.11,12 Skeletal Muscle Effects Simvastatin occasionally causes myopathy manifested as muscle pain, tenderness or weakness with creatine kinase (CK) above ten times the upper limit of normal (ULN). Myopathy sometimes takes the form of rhabdomyolysis with or without acute renal failure secondary to myoglobinuria, and rare fatalities have occurred. Predisposing factors for myopathy include advanced age (≥65 years), female gender, uncontrolled hypothyroidism, and renal impairment. Chinese patients may also be at increased risk for myopathy. In most cases, muscle symptoms and CK increases resolved when treatment was promptly discontinued.28,29 In a clinical trial database of 41,413 patients, the incidence of myopathy was approximately 0.03% and 0.08% at 20 and 40 mg/day, respectively, while the risk of myopathy with simvastatin 80 mg (0.61%) was disproportionately higher than that observed at the lower doses. It's therefore recommended that the 80mg dose of simvastatin should be used only in patients who have been taking simvastatin 80 mg chronically (e.g., for 12 months or more) without evidence of muscle toxicity. As well, patients already stabilized on simvastatin 80mg should be monitored closely for evidence of muscle toxicity; if they need to be initiated on an interacting drug that is contraindicated or is associated with a dose cap for simvastatin, that patient should be switched to an alternative statin with less potential for the drug-drug interaction.28,29 The risk of myopathy during treatment with simvastatin may be increased with concurrent administration of interacting drugs such as fenofibrate, niacin, gemfibrozil, cyclosporine, and strong inhibitors of the CYP3A4 enzyme. Cases of myopathy, including rhabdomyolysis, have been reported with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors coadministered with colchicine, and caution should therefore be exercised when prescribing these two medications together.28,29 Liver Enzyme Abnormalities Persistent increases (to more than 3X the ULN) in serum transaminases have occurred in approximately 1% of patients who received simvastatin in clinical studies. When drug treatment was interrupted or discontinued in these patients, the transaminase levels usually fell slowly to pretreatment levels. The increases were not associated with jaundice or other clinical signs or symptoms. 28,29 In the Scandinavian Simvastatin Survival Study (4S),14 the number of patients with more than one transaminase elevation to >3 times the ULN, over the course of the study, was not significantly different between the simvastatin and placebo groups (14 [0.7%] vs. 12 [0.6%]). The frequency of single elevations of ALT to 3 times the ULN was significantly higher in the simvastatin group in the first year of the study (20 vs. 8, p=0.023), but not thereafter. In the HPS (Heart Protection Study),10 in which 20,536 patients were randomized to receive simvastatin 40 mg/day or placebo, the incidences of elevated transaminases (>3X ULN confirmed by repeat test) were 0.21% (n=21) for patients treated with simvastatin and 0.09% (n=9) for patients treated with placebo.28,29  Endocrine Effects Increases in HbA1c and fasting serum glucose levels have been reported with HMG-CoA reductase inhibitors, including simvastatin.28 Although cholesterol is the precursor of all steroid hormones, studies with simvastatin have suggested that this agent has no clinical effect on steroidogenesis. Simvastatin caused no increase in biliary lithogenicity and, therefore, would not be expected to increase the incidence of gallstones.29 Simvastatin is a prodrug in which the 6-membered lactone ring of simvastatin is hydrolyzed in vivo to generate the beta,delta-dihydroxy acid, an active metabolite structurally similar to HMG-CoA (hydroxymethylglutaryl CoA). Once hydrolyzed, simvastatin competes with HMG-CoA for HMG-CoA reductase, a hepatic microsomal enzyme, which catalyzes the conversion of HMG-CoA to mevalonate, an early rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis.2 Simvastatin acts primarily in the liver, where decreased hepatic cholesterol concentrations stimulate the upregulation of hepatic low density lipoprotein (LDL) receptors which increases hepatic uptake of LDL. Simvastatin also inhibits hepatic synthesis of very low density lipoprotein (VLDL).28,29 The overall effect is a decrease in plasma LDL and VLDL.  At therapeutic doses, the HMG-CoA enzyme is not completely blocked by simvastatin activity, thereby allowing biologically necessary amounts of mevalonate to remain available. As mevalonate is an early step in the biosynthetic pathway for cholesterol, therapy with simvastatin would also not be expected to cause any accumulation of potentially toxic sterols. In addition, HMG-CoA is metabolized readily back to acetyl-CoA, which participates in many biosynthetic processes in the body.29 In vitro and in vivo animal studies also demonstrate that simvastatin exerts vasculoprotective effects independent of its lipid-lowering properties, also known as the pleiotropic effects of statins.15 This includes improvement in endothelial function, enhanced stability of atherosclerotic plaques, reduced oxidative stress and inflammation, and inhibition of the thrombogenic response. Statins have also been found to bind allosterically to β2 integrin function-associated antigen-1 (LFA-1), which plays an important role in leukocyte trafficking and in T cell activation.17 Peak plasma concentrations of both active and total inhibitors were attained within 1.3 to 2.4 hours post-dose. While the recommended therapeutic dose range is 10 to 40 mg/day, there was no substantial deviation from linearity of AUC with an increase in dose to as high as 120 mg. Relative to the fasting state, the plasma profile of inhibitors was not affected when simvastatin was administered immediately before a test meal.28,29 In a pharmacokinetic study of 17 healthy Chinese volunteers, the major PK parameters were as follows: Tmax 1.44 hours, Cmax 9.83 ug/L, t1/2 4.85 hours, and AUC 40.32ug·h/L.19 Simvastatin undergoes extensive first-pass extraction in the liver, the target organ for the inhibition of HMG-CoA reductase and the primary site of action. This tissue selectivity (and consequent low systemic exposure) of orally administered simvastatin has been shown to be far greater than that observed when the drug is administered as the enzymatically active form, i.e. as the open hydroxyacid.29 In animal studies, after oral dosing, simvastatin achieved substantially higher concentrations in the liver than in non-target tissues. However, because simvastatin undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism, the bioavailability of the drug in the systemic system is low. In a single-dose study in nine healthy subjects, it was estimated that less than 5% of an oral dose of simvastatin reached the general circulation in the form of active inhibitors.29 Genetic differences in the OATP1B1 (Organic-Anion-Transporting Polypeptide 1B1) hepatic transporter encoded by the SCLCO1B1 gene (Solute Carrier Organic Anion Transporter family member 1B1) have been shown to impact simvastatin pharmacokinetics. Evidence from pharmacogenetic studies of the c.521T>C single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) showed that simvastatin plasma concentrations were increased on average 3.2-fold for individuals homozygous for 521CC compared to homozygous 521TT individuals.22,21 The 521CC genotype is also associated with a marked increase in the risk of developing myopathy, likely secondary to increased systemic exposure.23 Other statin drugs impacted by this polymorphism include rosuvastatin, pitavastatin, atorvastatin, lovastatin, and pravastatin.20 For patients known to have the above-mentioned c.521CC OATP1B1 genotype, a maximum daily dose of 20mg of simvastatin is recommended to avoid adverse effects from the increased exposure to the drug, such as muscle pain and risk of rhabdomyolysis.29 Evidence has also been obtained with other statins such as rosuvastatin that concurrent use of statins and inhibitors of Breast Cancer Resistance Protein (BCRP) such as elbasvir and grazoprevir increased the plasma
Dextropropoxyphene | DrugBank Online Dextropropoxyphene is an opioid analgesic manufactured by Eli Lilly and Company. It is used in the symptomatic treatment of mild pain. It displays antitussive and local anaesthetic actions. Due to the risk of cardiac arrhythmias and overdose, possibly leading to death, dextropropoxyphene has been withdrawn from the market in Europe and the United States. The drug is often referred to as the general form, "propoxyphene", however only the dextro-isomer (dextropropoxyphene) has any analgesic effect. The levo-isomer appears to exhibit a very limited antitussive effect. For the relief of mild to moderate pain. Propoxyphene, a synthetic opiate agonist, is structurally similar to methadone. Its general pharmacologic properties are those of the opiates as a group. The analgesic effect of propoxyphene is due to the d-isomer, dextropropoxyphene. It binds to the opiate receptors and leads to a decrease of the perception of pain stimuli. Propoxyphene possesses little to no antitussive activity and no antipyretic action. Propoxyphene acts as a weak agonist at OP1, OP2, and OP3 opiate receptors within the central nervous system (CNS). Propoxyphene primarily affects OP3 receptors, which are coupled with G-protein receptors and function as modulators, both positive and negative, of synaptic transmission via G-proteins that activate effector proteins. Binding of the opiate stimulates the exchange of GTP for GDP on the G-protein complex. As the effector system is adenylate cyclase and cAMP located at the inner surface of the plasma membrane, opioids decrease intracellular cAMP by inhibiting adenylate cyclase. Subsequently, the release of nociceptive neurotransmitters such as substance P, GABA, dopamine, acetylcholine, and noradrenaline is inhibited. Opioids such as propoxyphene also inhibit the release of vasopressin, somatostatin, insulin, and glucagon. Opioids close N-type voltage-operated calcium channels (OP2-receptor agonist) and open calcium-dependent inwardly rectifying potassium channels (OP3 and OP1 receptor agonist). This results in hyperpolarization and reduced neuronal excitability. Hepatic The major route of metabolism is cytochrome CYP3A4 mediated N-demethylation to norpropoxyphene, which is excreted by the kidneys.
Dyphylline | DrugBank Online Dyphylline is a theophylline derivative with broncho- and vasodilator properties. It is typically used in the management of asthma, cardiac dyspnea, and bronchitis. For relief of acute bronchial asthma and for reversible bronchospasm associated with chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Dyphylline, a xanthine derivative, is a bronchodilator used for relief of acute bronchial asthma and for reversible bronchospasm associated with chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Dyphylline is a xanthine derivative with pharmacologic actions similar to theophylline and other members of this class of drugs. Its primary action is that of bronchodilation, but it also exhibits peripheral vasodilatory and other smooth muscle relaxant activity to a lesser degree. The bronchodilatory action of dyphylline, as with other xanthines, is thought to be mediated through competitive inhibition of phosphodiesterase with a resulting increase in cyclic AMP producing relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle as well as antagonism of adenosine receptors. 84% Hepatic Dyphylline exerts its bronchodilatory effects directly and, unlike the­ophylline, is excreted unchanged by the kidneys without being metabolized by the liver. Approximately 88% of a single oral dose can be recovered from the urine unchanged. 2 hours (range 1.8 - 2.1 hours) LD50=1954 mg/kg (orally in mice) Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Jones, J.W. and Maney, P.V.; U.S. Patent 2,575,344; November 20,1951; assigned to the
Trazodone | DrugBank Online Trazodone is triazolopyridine derivative from the serotonin receptor antagonists and reuptake inhibitors (SARIs) class of antidepressants.11 It is used in adults and has been shown to be comparable in efficacy to other drugs such as tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs), selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), and serotonin-norepinephrine receptor inhibitor (SNRIs) in the treatment of depression.20 A unique feature of this drug is that it does not promote the anxiety symptoms, sexual symptoms, or insomnia, which are commonly associated with SSRI and SNRI therapy.20 Trazodone acts on various receptors, including certain histamine, serotonin, and adrenergic receptors, distinguishing it from other antidepressants that cover a narrow range of neurotransmitters.20 It was initially granted FDA approval in 1981.21 Trazodone is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD).21 It has been used off-label for adjunct therapy in alcohol dependence, and off-label to treat anxiety and insomnia.21 It may also be used off-label to treat symptoms of dementia, Alzheimer’s disease, schizophrenia, eating disorders, and fibromyalgia due to its effects on various neurotransmitter receptors.10 Trazodone treats depressed mood and other depression-related symptoms and shows benefit in the treatment of insomnia due to its sedating effects.20 It is known to prolong the cardiac QT-interval.21 Memory, alertness, and cognition may be decreased by trazodone, especially in elderly patients due to its central nervous system depressant effects.9 A note on priapism Trazodone has been associated with the occurrence of priapism, a painful and persistent incidence of penile tissue erection that is unrelievable and can cause permanent neurological damage if left untreated. Patients must be advised to seek immediate medical attention if priapism is suspected.15,21 The mechanism of action of trazodone is not fully understood, however, it is known to inhibit the reuptake of serotonin and block both histamine and alpha-1-adrenergic receptors.20 Despite the fact that trazodone is frequently considered a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor, several reports have shown that other mechanisms including antagonism at serotonin 5-HT1a, 5-HT1c, and 5-HT2 receptor subtypes may occur.9,20 The strongest antagonism of trazodone is reported to occur at the serotonin
Mecamylamine | DrugBank Online A nicotinic antagonist that is well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and crosses the blood-brain barrier. Mecamylamine has been used as a ganglionic blocker in treating hypertension, but, like most ganglionic blockers, is more often used now as a research tool. For the treatment of moderately severe to severe essential hypertension and in uncomplicated cases of malignant hypertension Mecamylamine is a potent, oral antihypertensive agent and ganglion blocker, and is a secondary amine. Mecamylamine is indicated for the management of moderately severe to severe essential hypertension and in uncomplicated cases of malignant hypertension. Mecamylamine reduces blood pressure in both normotensive and hypertensive individuals. A small oral dosage often produces a smooth and predictable reduction of blood pressure. Although this antihypertensive effect is predominantly orthostatic, the supine blood pressure is also significantly reduced. Mecamylamine crosses the blood-brain and placental barriers. Mecamylamine is a ganglionic blocker which prevents stimulation of postsynaptic receptors by acetylcholine released from presynaptic nerve endings. The hypotensive effect of Mecamylamine is attributed to reduction in sympathetic tone, vasodilation, and reduced cardiac output, and is primarily postural. Mecamylamine is almost completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract 40% Mecamylamine is excreted slowly in the urine in the unchanged form. The rate of its renal elimination is influenced markedly by urinary pH.
Flumethasone | DrugBank Online Flumethasone is a moderately potent difluorinated corticosteroid ester with anti-inflammatory, antipruritic and vasoconstrictive properties. As it is a privalate salt, its anti-inflammatory action is concentrated at the site of application. This local effect on diseased areas results in a prompt decrease in inflammation, exudation and itching. For the treatment of contact dermatitis, atopic dermatitis, exczema, psoriasis, diaper rash and other skin conditions Flumethasone pivalate is a moderately potent difluorinated corticosteroid ester with anti-inflammatory, antipruritic and vasoconstrictive properties. As it is a privalate salt, its anti-inflammatory action is concentrated at the site of application. This local effect on diseased areas results in a prompt decrease in inflammation, exudation and itching. Flumethasone is a glucocorticoid receptor agonist. This complex binds to the nucleus causing a variety of genetic activation and repressions. The antiinflammatory actions of corticosteroids are thought to involve lipocortins, phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins which, through inhibition arachidonic acid, control the biosynthesis of prostaglandins and leukotrienes. The immune system is suppressed by corticosteroids due to a decrease in the function of the lymphatic system, a reduction in immunoglobulin and complement concentrations, the precipitation of lymphocytopenia, and interference with antigen-antibody binding. Flumethasone binds to plasma transcortin, and it becomes active when it is not bound to transcortin. Minimal if applied topically Primarily hepatic Can lead to signs of irritation such as burning sensation, itching or skin rash at the site of application; hypersensitivity reactions. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Lincoln, F.H., Schneider, W.P. and Spero, G.B.; U.S. Patent 3,557,158; January 19, 1971;
Epinephrine | DrugBank Online Epinephrine, also known as adrenaline, is a hormone and neurotransmitter and produced by the adrenal glands that can also be used as a drug due to its various important functions. Though it has long been used in the treatment of hypersensitivity reactions, epinephrine in the auto-injector form (EpiPen) has been available since 1987 in the USA. Many new products/biosimilars and dosage routes have been approved under various names over the last several decades 10, 11, 12. On August 16, 2018, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA gained approval to market its generic epinephrine auto-injector in 0.3 mg and 0.15 mg strengths 8. Dosage delivery routes for epinephrine include intravenous, inhalation, nebulization, intramuscular injection, and subcutaneous injection. In general, the most common uses of parenteral epinephrine are to relieve respiratory distress due to bronchospasm, to provide rapid relief of hypersensitivity (anaphylactic or anaphylactoid) reactions to drugs, animal serums and other allergens, and to prolong the action of infiltration anesthetics 19. In addition to the above functions, epinephrine is the primary drug administered during cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) to reverse cardiac arrest 3, 4. It can be used in severe cases of croup 14. Epinephrine injection is indicated in the emergency treatment of allergic reactions (Type I) including anaphylaxis to stinging insects (e.g., order Hymenoptera, which include bees, wasps, hornets, yellow jackets and fire ants) and biting insects (e.g., triatoma, mosquitos), allergen immunotherapy, foods, drugs, diagnostic testing substances (e.g., radiocontrast media) and other allergens, as well as idiopathic anaphylaxis or exercise-induced anaphylaxis. Injectable epinephrine is intended for immediate/urgent administration in patients, who are found to be at increased risk for anaphylaxis, including individuals with a history of anaphylaxis. Selection of the appropriate dosage strength is determined according to body weight Label.  Epinephrine's cardiac effects may be of use in restoring cardiac rhythm in cardiac arrest due to various causes but is not used in cardiac failure or in hemorrhagic, traumatic, or cardiogenic shock 17. Epinephrine is used as a hemostatic agent. It is also used in treating mucosal congestion of hay fever, rhinitis, and acute sinusitis; to relieve bronchial asthmatic paroxysms; in syncope due to complete heart block or carotid sinus hypersensitivity; for symptomatic relief of serum sickness, urticaria, angioneurotic edema; for resuscitation in cardiac arrest following anesthetic accidents; in simple (open angle) glaucoma; for relaxation of uterine musculature and to inhibit uterine contractions. Epinephrine injection can be utilized to prolong the action of local anesthetics 17. In addition to the above, epinephrine is used as an over the counter (OTC) agent for the intermittent symptoms of asthma, such as wheezing, tightness of chest and shortness of breath 18. It is also used for the maintenance of mydriasis during intraocular surgery 15. Epinephrine is a sympathomimetic drug. It causes an adrenergic receptive mechanism on effector cells and mimics all actions of the sympathetic nervous system except those on the facial arteries and sweat glands 17.  Important effects of epinephrine include increased heart rate, myocardial contractility, and renin release via beta-1 receptors. Beta-2 effects produce bronchodilation which may be useful as an adjunct treatment of asthma exacerbations as well as vasodilation, tocolysis, and increased aqueous humor production 15. In croup, nebulized epinephrine is associated with both clinically and statistically significant transient reduction of croup symptoms 30 minutes post-treatment 7. Epinephrine also alleviates pruritus, urticaria, and angioedema and may be helpful in relieving gastrointestinal and genitourinary symptoms associated with anaphylaxis because of its relaxing effects on the smooth muscle of the stomach, intestine, uterus, and urinary bladder Label. Epinephrine acts on alpha and beta-adrenergic receptors. Epinephrine acts on alpha and beta receptors and is the strongest alpha receptor activator 17. Through its action on alpha-adrenergic receptors, epinephrine minimizes the vasodilation and increased the vascular permeability that occurs during anaphylaxis, which can cause the loss of intravascular fluid volume as well as hypotension. Epinephrine relaxes the smooth muscle of the bronchi and iris and is a histamine antagonist, rendering it useful in treating the manifestations of allergic reactions and associated conditions 19. This drug also produces an increase in blood sugar and increases glycogenolysis in the liver 17. Through its action on beta-adrenergic receptors, epinephrine leads to bronchial smooth muscle relaxation that helps to relieve bronchospasm, wheezing, and dyspnea that may occur during anaphylaxis Label. Following I.V. (intravenous) injection, epinephrine disappears rapidly from the blood stream. Subcutaneously or I.M. (intramuscular) administered epinephrine has a rapid onset and short duration of action. Subcutaneous (SC) administration during asthmatic attacks may produce bronchodilation within 5 to 10 minutes, and maximal effects may occur within 20 minutes. The drug becomes fixed in the tissues rapidly 17, Label. Epinephrine is rapidly inactivated mainly by enzymic transformation to metanephrine or normetanephrine, either of which is then conjugated and excreted in the urine in the form of both sulfates and glucuronides. Either sequence results in the formation of 3-methoxy-4- hydroxy-mandelic acid(vanillylmandelic acid, VMA) which is shown to be detectable in the urine 17. Epinephrine is rapidly inactivated in the body mostly by the enzymes COMT (catechol-O-methyltransferase) and MAO (monoamine oxidase). The liver is abundant in the above enzymes, and is a primary, although not essential, tissue in the degradation process 13.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners The majority of the dose of epinephrine is seen excreted in the urine 13, Label.
About 40% of a parenteral dose of epinephrine is excreted in urine as metanephrine, 40% as VMA, 7% as 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenoglycol, 2% as 3,4-dihydroxymandelic acid, and the rest as acetylated derivatives. These metabolites are excreted mainly as the sulfate conjugates and, to a lesser extent, the glucuronide conjugates. Only small amounts of the drug are excreted completely unchanged 16. The plasma half-life is approximately 2-3 minutes. However, when administered by subcutaneous or intramuscular injection, local vasoconstriction may delay absorption so that epinephrine's effects may last longer than the half-life suggests 13. Intravenous injection produces an immediate and intensified response. Following intravenous injection, epinephrine disappears rapidly from the blood stream 19. Skin, LD50 = 62 mg/kg (rat) MSDS Pregnancy Epinephrine is teratogenic in rats when given in doses about 25 times the human doses. It is unknown whether epinephrine can cause fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman or can affect reproduction capacity. Epinephrine should be given to a pregnant woman only if clearly required in critical situations/emergencies 19. Labor and Delivery
Parenteral administration of epinephrine, if used as support for blood pressure during low or other spinal anesthesia for delivery, can lead to the acceleration of fetal heart rate and should not be used in obstetrics when maternal blood pressure is higher than 130/80. Epinephrine may delay the second stage of labour. Common and generalized adverse effects:
Chlorpropamide | DrugBank Online Chlorpropamide is an oral antihyperglycemic agent used for the treatment of non-insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus (NIDDM). It belongs to the sulfonylurea class of insulin secretagogues, which act by stimulating β cells of the pancreas to release insulin. Sulfonylureas increase both basal insulin secretion and meal-stimulated insulin release. Medications in this class differ in their dose, rate of absorption, duration of action, route of elimination and binding site on their target pancreatic β cell receptor. Sulfonylureas also increase peripheral glucose utilization, decrease hepatic gluconeogenesis and may increase the number and sensitivity of insulin receptors. Sulfonylureas are associated with weight gain, though less so than insulin. Due to their mechanism of action, sulfonylureas may cause hypoglycemia and require consistent food intake to decrease this risk. The risk of hypoglycemia is increased in elderly, debilitated and malnourished individuals. Chlorpropamide is not recommended for the treatment of NIDDM as it increases blood pressure and the risk of retinopathy (UKPDS-33). Up to 80% of the single oral dose of chlorpropramide is metabolized, likely in the liver; 80-90% of the dose is excreted in urine as unchanged drug and metabolites. Renal and hepatic dysfunction may increase the risk of hypoglycemia. For treatment of NIDDM in conjunction with diet and exercise.  Chlorpropamide, a second-generation sulfonylurea antidiabetic agent, is used with diet to lower blood glucose levels in patients with diabetes mellitus type II. Chlorpropamide is twice as potent as the related second-generation agent glipizide. Sulfonylureas such as chlorpropamide bind to ATP-sensitive potassium channels on the pancreatic cell surface, reducing potassium conductance and causing depolarization of the membrane. Depolarization stimulates calcium ion influx through voltage-sensitive calcium channels, raising intracellular concentrations of calcium ions, which induces the secretion, or exocytosis, of insulin. Readily absorbed from the GI tract. Peak plasma concentrations occur within 2-4 hours and the onset of action occurs within one hour. The maximal effect of chlorpropamide is seen 3-6 hours following oral administration.  Highly bound to plasma proteins. Up to 80% of dose is metabolized likely through the liver to to 2-hydroxylchlorpropamide (2-OH CPA), p-chlorobenzenesulfonylurea (CBSU), 3-hydroxylchlorpropamide (3-OH CPA), and p-chlorobenzenesulfonamide (CBSA); CBSA may be produced by decomposition in urine. It is unknown whether chlorpropamide metabolites exert hypoglycemic effects.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners 80-90% of a single oral dose is excreted in the urine as unchaged drug and metabolites within 96 hours.  Approximately 36 hours with interindividual variation ranging from 25-60 hours. Duration of effect persists for at least 24 hours.  IPN-RAT LD50 580 mg/kg Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. McLamore, W.M.; U S . Patent 3,349,124; October 24,1967; assigned to Chas. Pfizer Co.,
Aprepitant | DrugBank Online Aprepitant, an antiemetic, is a substance P/neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor antagonist which, in combination with other antiemetic agents, is indicated for the prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. Aprepitant is a selective high-affinity antagonist of human substance P/neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors. Aprepitant has little or no affinity for serotonin (5-HT3), dopamine, and corticosteroid receptors, the targets of existing therapies for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CI NV). For the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including high-dose cisplatin (in combination with other antiemetic agents). Aprepitant, an antiemetic, is a substance P/neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor antagonist which, in combination with other antiemetic agents, is indicated for the prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. Aprepitant is a selective high-affinity antagonist of human substance P/neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors. Aprepitant has little or no affinity for serotonin (5-HT3), dopamine, and corticosteroid receptors, the targets of existing therapies for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CI NV). Aprepitant has been shown in animal models to inhibit emesis induced by cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents, such as cisplatin, via central actions. Animal and human Positron Emission Tomography (PET) studies with Aprepitant have shown that it crosses the blood brain barrier and occupies brain NK1 receptors. Animal and human studies show that Aprepitant augments the antiemetic activity of the 5-HT3-receptor antagonist ondansetron and the corticosteroid
Midazolam | DrugBank Online Midazolam is a short-acting hypnotic-sedative drug with anxiolytic, muscle relaxant, anticonvulsant, sedative, hypnotic, and amnesic properties.6 It belongs to a class of drugs called benzodiazepines. This drug is unique from others in this class due to its rapid onset of effects and short duration of action.6 Midazolam is available by oral, rectal, intranasal, intramuscular (IM), and intravenous (IV) routes and has been used in various biomedical applications, including dentistry, cardiac surgery, and endoscopic procedures as pre-anesthetic medication, and as an adjunct to local anesthesia.13 This drug was initially approved by the US FDA in 1985, and has been approved for various indications since.Label In late 2018, the intramuscular preparation was approved by the FDA for the treatment of status epilepticus in adults.Label In May 2019, the nasal spray of midazolam was approved for the acute treatment of distinctive intermittent, stereotypic seizure episodes in patients 12 years of age and older. Midazolam is considered a schedule IV drug in the United States due to the low potential for abuse and low risk of dependence.9 Intravenous  Indicated for promoting preoperative sedation, anxiolysis, anesthesia induction, or amnesia.12 Intramuscular  Indicated for the treatment of status epilepticus in adults.Label Nasal  Indicated for the acute treatment of intermittent, stereotypic episodes of frequent seizure activity (i.e., seizure clusters, acute repetitive seizures) that are distinct from a patient’s usual seizure pattern in patients with epilepsy 12 years of age and older.11 General effects Midazolam is a short-acting benzodiazepine central nervous system (CNS) depressant. Pharmacodynamic properties of midazolam and its metabolites, which are similar to those of other benzodiazepine drugs, include sedative, anxiolytic, amnestic, muscle relaxant, as well as hypnotic activities.12 Benzodiazepines enhance the inhibitory action of the amino acid neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA). Receptors for GABA are targeted by many important drugs that affect GABA function and are commonly used in the treatment of anxiety disorder, epilepsy, insomnia, spasticity, and aggressive behavior.7 Sedation and memory The onset of sedation after intramuscular administration in adults is 15 minutes, with maximal sedation occurring 30-60 minutes after injection.Label In one study of adults, when tested the following day, 73% of the patients who were administered midazolam intramuscularly had no recollection of memory cards shown 30 minutes following drug administration; 40% had no recollection of the memory cards shown 60 minutes after drug administration. Onset time of sedative effects in pediatric patients begins within 5 minutes and peaks at 15-30 minutes depending upon the dose administered. In the pediatric population, up to 85% had no memory of pictures shown after receiving intramuscular midazolam compared to 5% of the placebo control group.12 Sedation in both adult and pediatric patients is reached within 3 to 5 minutes post intravenous (IV) injection. The time of onset is affected by the dose administered and the simultaneous administration of narcotic pre-medication. Seventy-one (71%) percent of the adult patients in clinical endoscopy studies had no memory of insertion of the endoscope; 82% of the patients had no memory of withdrawal of the endoscope.Label Anesthesia induction When midazolam is administered intravenously (IV) for anesthetic induction, induction of anesthesia occurs in about 1.5 minutes when narcotic pre-medication has been given and in 2 to 2.5 minutes without narcotic pre-medication/ other sedative pre-medication. Impairment in a memory test was observed in 90% of the patients.Label The actions of benzodiazepines such as midazolam are mediated through the inhibitory neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), which is one of the major inhibitory neurotransmitters in the central nervous system. Benzodiazepines increase the activity of GABA, thereby producing a sedating effect, relaxing skeletal muscles, and inducing sleep, anesthesia, and amnesia. Benzodiazepines bind to the benzodiazepine site on GABA-A receptors, which potentiates the effects of GABA by increasing the frequency of chloride channel opening.12 These receptors have been identified in different body tissues including the heart and skeletal muscle, although mainly appear to be present in the central nervous system.6 Oral Absorption: Rapidly absorbed after oral administration. The absolute bioavailability, if given intramuscularly (IM), is greater than 90% Label. Due to first pass metabolism, only 40-50% of the administered oral dose reaches the circulation.6 The absolute bioavailability of the midazolam syrup in pediatric patients is about 36%.10 Intramuscular Absorption: The mean peak concentration (Cmax) and time to peak (Tmax) following the IM dose was 90 ng/mL (20% CV) and 0.5 hour (50% CV).Label Rectal administration: After rectal administration midazolam is absorbed rapidly. Maximum plasma concentration is reached within 30 minutes. The absolute bioavailability is approximately 50%.13 Intranasal Administration: Midazolam is absorbed rapidly after intranasal administration. Mean peak plasma concentrations are reached within 10.2 to 12.6 minutes. The bioavailability is between 55 and 57%.13 Female gender, old age, and obesity may increase the volume of distribution. Midazolam may also cross the placenta and has been detected in human milk and cerebrospinal fluid.Label,12 Intravenous administration 1.24 to 2.02 L/kg [pediatric patients (6 months to <16 years) receiving 0.15 mg/kg IV midazolam]
1 to 3.1 L/kg [midazolam intravenously administered, healthy adults].12 Intramuscular administration The mean apparent volume of distribution of midazolam after a single IM dose of 10 mg midazolam in healthy adults was 2117 (±845.1) mL/kg.Label Midazolam is approximately 97% bound to plasma protein, mainly albumin, in adults. The 1-hydroxy metabolite is approximately 89% bound to plasma protein.12 Midazolam is primarily metabolized in the liver and gut by CYP3A4 Label to its pharmacologic active metabolite, alpha-hydroxymidazolam (also known as 1-hydroxy-midazolam), and 4-hydroxymidazolam (which makes up 5% or less of the biotransformation products). This metabolite likely contributes to the pharmacological effects of midazolam. Midazolam also undergoes N-glucuronidation via UGT1A4 after the process of hepatic oxidation by cytochrome enzymes.6 Hover over products below to view reaction partners The α-hydroxymidazolam glucuronide conjugate of midazolam is excreted in urine. No significant amount of parent drug or metabolites is found in urine before beta-glucuronidase and sulfatase deconjugation, suggesting that the urinary metabolites are excreted mainly as conjugates. The amount of midazolam excreted unchanged in the urine when given intravenously is less than 0.5%. 45% to 57% of the dose was excreted in the urine as 1-hydroxymethyl midazolam conjugate.12 Plasma clearance of midazolam is higher in patients that remain in supine position, because of a 40-60 percent increase in hepatic blood flow during supination. Pregnancy may also increase the metabolism of midazolam.6 Intravenous: healthy adults = 1.8 to 6.4 hours (mean of 3 hours).12 Intramuscular: Following IM administration of 10 mg midazolam, mean (±SD) elimination half-life was 4.2 (±1.87) hours.Label Intramuscular: apparent total body clearance, 367.3 (±73.5) mL/hr/kg.Label
Cephaloglycin | DrugBank Online A cephalorsporin antibiotic that is no longer commonly used. For treatment of severe infections caused by susceptible bacteria. Cephaloglycin is an antibiotic related to cephalosporin but no longer in common use. It is an orally absorbed derivative of cephalosporin C. The bactericidal activity of cephaloglycin results from the inhibition of cell wall synthesis via affinity for penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs). Well absorbed following oral administration. Adverse effects following overdosage include nausea, vomiting, epigastric distress, diarrhea, and convulsions. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Wall, W.F., Fatherey, M. and Boothroyd, 6.; U.S. Patent 3,422,103; January 14,1969; assigned to Glaxo Laboratories, Ltd.
Pfeiffer, R.R. and Bottorff, E.M.; US. Patent 3,497,505; February 24,1970; assigned to Eli
Lilly & Co.
Tizanidine | DrugBank Online Tizanidine is a fast-acting drug used for the management of muscle spasm, which may result from the effects of multiple sclerosis, stroke, an acquired brain injury, or a spinal cord injury 9. It may also be caused by musculoskeletal injury 5. Regardless of the cause, muscle spasticity can be an extremely painful and debilitating condition.  Initially approved by the FDA in 1996, tizanidine is an Alpha-2 adrenergic receptor agonist reducing spasticity by the presynaptic inhibition of excitatory neurotransmitters that cause firing of neurons promoting muscle spasm Label. Tizanidine is indicated for the relief of muscle spasticity, which can interfere with daily activities. The general recommendation is to reserve tizanidine use for periods of time when there is a particular need for relief, as it has a short duration of action Label,11.  A note on spasticity Spasticity is an increase in muscle accompanied by uncontrolled, repetitive contractions of skeletal muscles which are involuntary.
The patient suffering from muscle spasticity may have reduced mobility and high levels of pain, contributing to poor quality of life and problems performing activities of personal hygiene and care 7.  General effects Tizanidine is a rapidly acting drug used for the relief of muscle spasticity when it is required for performing specific activities. It acts as an agonist at Alpha-2 adrenergic receptor sites and relieves symptoms of muscle spasticity, allowing the continuation of normal daily activities. In animal models, tizanidine has not been shown to exert direct effects on skeletal muscle fibers or the neuromuscular junction, and has shown no significant effect on monosynaptic spinal reflexes (consisting of the communication between only 1 sensory neuron and 1 motor neuron) 10. The frequency of muscle spasm and clonus are shown to be decreased by tizanidine 9. Tizanidine shows a stronger action on polysynaptic reflexes, which involve several interneurons (relay neurons) communicating with motor neurons stimulating muscle movement 10. Effects on blood pressure and heart rate This drug decreases heart rate and blood pressure in humans 4,6. Despite this, rebound hypertension and tachycardia along with increased spasticity can occur when tizanidine is abruptly discontinued 8.  Tizanidine reduces spasticity by causing presynaptic inhibition of motor neurons via agonist actions at Alpha-2 adrenergic receptor sites.
This drug is centrally acting and leads to a reduction in the release of excitatory amino acids like glutamate and aspartate, which cause neuronal firing that leads to muscle spasm. The above reduction and excitatory neurotransmitter release results in presynaptic inhibition of motor neurons. The strongest effect of tizanidine has been shown to occur on spinal polysynaptic pathways. The anti-nociceptive and anticonvulsant activities of tizanidine may also be attributed to agonist action on Alpha-2 receptors. Tizanidine also binds with weaker affinity to the Alpha-1 receptors, explaining its slight and temporary effect on the cardiovascular system 9.  This drug undergoes significant first-pass metabolism. After the administration of an oral dose, tizanidine is mostly absorbed. The absolute oral bioavailability of tizanidine is measured to be about 40% Label.  Effect of food on absorption Food has been shown to increase absorption for both the tablets and capsules. The increase in absorption with the tablet (about 30%) was noticeably higher than the capsule (~10%). When the capsule and tablet were administered with food, the amount absorbed from the capsule was about 80% of the amount absorbed from the tablet Label. It is therefore advisable to take this drug with food for increased absorption, especially in tablet form. Extensively distributed throughout the body. The average steady-state volume of distribution is 2.4 L/kg Label.  About 30% bound to plasma proteins Label.  About 95% of the ingested dose of tizanidine is metabolized. The main enzyme involved in the hepatic metabolism of tizanidine is CYP1A2 Label.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners This drug is mainly eliminated by the kidney Label.  Approximately 2.5 hours Label. A note on renal impairment Tizanidine clearance is found to be decreased by more than 50% in elderly patients with renal insufficiency (creatinine clearance < 25 mL/min)
Sufentanil | DrugBank Online Sufentanil is an opioid analgesic that is used as an adjunct in anesthesia, in balanced anesthesia, and as a primary anesthetic agent. It is administered by the intravenous, epidural and sublingual routes.  Also known as Dsuvia, the sublingual form is used for the management of acute pain in adults that is severe to warrant the use of an opioid analgesic in certified medically supervised healthcare settings, including hospitals, surgical centers, and emergency departments 10. Consideration may be made in the future for the use of the sublingual form in the US military in cases where analgesia is required immediately 11. The sublingual form, manufactured by AcelRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (AcelRx), was approved on November 2, 2018 10.
This route of administration is intended to be a simple, effective, non-invasive analgesic option to enable healthcare professionals to rapidly manage acute pain without difficult intravenous or epidural administration 10, 4. The indications for this drug are as follows: As an analgesic adjunct in the maintenance of balanced general anesthesia in patients who are intubated and ventilated. As a primary anesthetic agent for the induction and maintenance of anesthesia with 100% oxygen in patients undergoing major surgical procedures, in patients who are intubated and ventilated, such as cardiovascular surgery or neurosurgical procedures in the sitting position, to provide favorable myocardial and cerebral oxygen balance or when extended postoperative ventilation is anticipated. For epidural administration as an analgesic combined with low dose (usually 12.5 mg per administration) bupivacaine usually during labor and vaginal delivery  The sublingual form is indicated for the management of acute pain in adults that is severe to warrant the use of an opioid analgesic in certified medically supervised healthcare settings, including hospitals, surgical centers, and emergency departments. Label Effect on the Central Nervous System (CNS) In clinical settings, sufentanil exerts its principal pharmacologic effects on the central nervous system. Its primary therapeutic actions are analgesia and sedation. Sufentanil may increase pain tolerance and decrease the perception of pain. This drug depresses the respiratory centers, depresses the cough reflex, and constricts the pupils 12, 9. When used in balanced general anesthesia, sufentanil has been reported to be as much as 10 times as potent as fentanyl. When administered intravenously as a primary anesthetic agent with 100% oxygen, sufentanil is approximately 5 to 7 times as potent as fentanyl Label. High doses of intravenous sufentanil have been shown to cause muscle rigidity, likely as a result of an effect on the substantia nigra and the striate nucleus in the brain. Sleep-inducing (hypnotic) activity can be demonstrated by EEG alterations Label. Effects on the Respiratory System Sufentanil may cause respiratory depression Label. Effects on the Cardiovascular System Sufentanil causes peripheral vasodilation which may result in orthostatic hypotension or syncope. Bradycardia may also occur 12. Clinical signs or symptoms of histamine release and/or peripheral vasodilation may include pruritus, flushing, red eyes and sweating and/or orthostatic hypotension Label. Effects on the Gastrointestinal Tract Sufentanil causes a reduction in motility associated with an increase in smooth muscle tone in both the antrum of the stomach and duodenum. Digestion of food in the small intestine may be delayed and propulsive contractions are decreased. Propulsive peristaltic waves in the colon are decreased, while tone may be increased and lead to spasm, resulting in constipation. Other opioid-induced effects may include a reduction in biliary and pancreatic secretions, spasm of the sphincter of Oddi, as well as temporary elevations in serum amylase Label. Sufentanil is a synthetic, potent opioid with highly selective binding to μ-opioid receptors 12. These receptors are widely distributed in the human brain, spinal cord, and other tissues 8, 9. In general, opioids decrease cAMP (affecting neural signaling pathways), decrease neurotransmitter release, and cause membrane hyperpolarization, all of which contribute to the relief of painful symptoms 9. Opiate receptors are coupled with G-protein receptors and function as both positive and negative regulators of synaptic neural transmission via G-proteins that activate effector proteins. Binding of the opiate receptor leads to the exchange of GTP for GDP on the G-protein complex. As the effector system is adenylate cyclase and cAMP, located at the inner surface of the plasma membrane, opioids decrease intracellular cAMP by inhibiting adenylate cyclase. The release of nociceptive neurotransmitters such as substance P, GABA, dopamine, acetylcholine, and noradrenaline is then inhibited 9.  Opioids close N-type voltage-operated calcium channels (OP2-receptor agonist), also preventing neurotransmitter release 9. Sufentanil and other opioids open calcium-dependent inwardly rectifying potassium channels, resulting in hyperpolarization and reduced neuronal excitability 8, 9.  Bioavailability of a single sublingual tablet was 52%, decreasing to 35% with repeat dosing 5. After epidural administration of incremental doses totaling 5 to 40 mcg sufentanil during labor and delivery, maternal and neonatal sufentanil plasma concentrations were at or near the 0.05 to 0.1 ng/mL limit of detection, and were slightly higher in mothers than in their infants Label. Sufentanil has a distribution time of 1.4 minutes and redistribution time of 17.1 minutes Label.
The central volume of distribution after intravenous application of sufentanil is approximately 14 L and the volume of distribution at steady state is approximately 350 L 12. Plasma protein binding of sufentanil, related to the alpha acid glycoprotein concentration, was approximately 93% in healthy males, 91% in mothers and 79% in neonates Label. The liver and small intestine are the major sites of biotransformation Label.
Sufentanil is rapidly metabolized to a number of inactive metabolites, with oxidative N- and O-dealkylation being the major routes of elimination 12. Approximately 80% of the administered dose is excreted within 24 hours and only 2% of the dose is eliminated as unchanged drug Label. The elimination half-life is 164 minutes in adults when administered intravenously (IV). The elimination half-life of sufentanil is shorter (e.g. 97 +/- 42 minutes) in infants and children, and longer in neonates (e.g. 434 +/- 160 minutes) compared to that of adolescents and adults Label. After a single administration of a 15 microgram sufentanil sublingual tablet, mean terminal phase half-lives in the range of 6-10 hours have been observed. After multiple administrations, a longer average terminal half-life of up to 18 hours was measured, owing to the higher plasma concentrations of sufentanil achieved after repeated dosing and due to the possibility to quantify these concentrations over a longer time period 12. The total plasma clearance after single intravenous administration is about 917 l/min 12. The clearance of sufentanil in healthy neonates is approximately one-half that in adults and children. The clearance rate of sufentanil can be further reduced by up to a third in neonates with cardiovascular disease Label.  LD50: 18.7 mg/kg (IV in mice) MSDS A Note on Respiratory Depression Major, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even in cases where it is used as recommended. Respiratory depression may lead to respiratory arrest and death if not diagnosed and treated appropriately. This drug should be administered only by persons specifically trained in the use of anesthetic drugs and the management of the respiratory effects of potent opioids, including respiration and cardiac resuscitation of patients in the age group being treated. This training must include the establishment and maintenance of a patent airway and assisted ventilation Label. Carcinogenesis
Long-term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of sufentanil have not been conducted Label. Mutagenesis
Diethylcarbamazine | DrugBank Online An anthelmintic used primarily as the citrate in the treatment of filariasis, particularly infestations with Wucheria bancrofti or Loa loa. Used for the treatment of certain filarial diseases, including tropical pulmonary eosinophilia, loiasis, and lymphatic filariasis caused by infection with Wuchereria bancrofti, Brugia malayi, or Brugia timori. Diethylcarbamazine is an anthelmintic drug that does not resemble other antiparasitic compounds. It is a synthetic organic compound which is highly specific for several parasites and does not contain any toxic metallic elements.  The mechanism of action of diethylcarbamazine is thought to involve sensitizing the microfilariae to phagocytosis. One study showed that diethylcarbamazine's activity against Brugia malayi microfilariae is dependent on inducible nitric-oxide synthase and the cyclooxygenase pathway. It confirmed the important role of the arachidonic acid metabolic pathway in diethylcarbamazine's mechanism of action in vivo and showes that in addition to its effects on the 5-lipoxygenase pathway, it targets the cyclooxygenase pathway and COX-1. Readily absorbed following oral administration. Partially metabolized to diethylcarbamazine N-oxide. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Approximately 8 hours. Oral LD50 in rat and mouse is 1400 mg/kg and 660 mg/kg, respectively. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Kushner, S. and Brancone, L.; US. Patent 2,467,893; April 19,1949; assigned to American
Cyanamid Company.
Kushner, S. and Brancone, L.; US. Patent 2,467,895; April 19, 1949; assigned to American
Flurbiprofen | DrugBank Online Flurbiprofen, a propionic acid derivative, is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAIA) with antipyretic and analgesic activity. Oral formulations of flurbiprofen may be used for the symptomatic treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis and anklylosing spondylitis. Flurbiprofen may also be used topically prior to ocular surgery to prevent or reduce intraoperative miosis. Flurbiprofen is structurally and pharmacologically related to fenoprofen, ibuprofen, and ketoprofen. Flurbiprofen tablets are indicated for the acute or long-term symptomatic treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, osteorarthritis and anklosing spondylitis. It may also be used to treat pain associated with dysmenorrhea and mild to moderate pain accompanied by inflammation (e.g. bursitis, tendonitis, soft tissue trauma). Topical ophthalmic formulations may be used pre-operatively to prevent intraoperative miosis.  Flurbiprofen, a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAIA) of the propionic acid class, is structually and pharmacologically related to fenoprofen, ibuprofen, and ketoprofen, and has similar pharmacological actions to other prototypica NSAIAs. Flurbiprofen exhibits antiinflammatory, analgesic, and antipyretic activities. The commercially available flurbiprofen is a racemic mixture of (+)S- and (-) R-enantiomers. The S-enantiomer appears to possess most of the anti-inflammatory, while both enantiomers may possess analgesic activity. Similar to other NSAIAs, the anti-inflammatory effect of flurbiprofen occurs via reversible inhibition of cyclooxygenase (COX), the enzyme responsible for the conversion of arachidonic acid to prostaglandin G2 (PGG2) and PGG2 to prostaglandin H2 (PGH2) in the prostaglandin synthesis pathway. This effectively decreases the concentration of prostaglandins involved in inflammation, pain, swelling and fever. Flurbiprofen is a non-selective COX inhibitor and inhibits the activity of both COX-1 and -2. It is also one of the most potent NSAIAs in terms of prostaglandin inhibitory activity. Fluribiprofen is rapidly and almost completely absorbed following oral administration. Peak plasma concentrations are reached 0.5 - 4 hours after oral administration.  > 99% bound, primarily to albumin. Binds to a different primary binding site on albumin than anticoagulants, sulfonamides and phenytoin.  Hepatic. Cytochrome P450 2C9 plays an important role in the metabolism of flurbiprofen to its major metabolite, 4’-hydroxy-flurbiprofen. The 4’-hydroxy-flurbiprofen metabolite showed little anti-inflammatory activity in animal models of inflammation. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Flurbiprofen is poorly excreted into human milk. Following dosing with flurbiprofen, less than 3% of flurbiprofen is excreted unchanged in the urine, with about 70% of the dose eliminated in the urine as parent drug and metabolites. Renal elimination is a significant pathway of elimination of flurbiprofen metabolites. R-flurbiprofen, 4.7 hours; S-flurbiprofen, 5.7 hours LD50=10 mg/kg (orally in dogs).
Paroxetine | DrugBank Online Paroxetine is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) drug commonly known as Paxil. It has a variety of uses, including the treatment of anxiety disorders, major depression, posttraumatic stress disorder, and symptoms of menopause, among others.26 It was approved by the FDA in the early 1990s and marketed by SmithKline Beecham.32,33 A unique feature of this drug is that it is highly potent and selective in its inhibition of serotonin reuptake and has little effect on other neurotransmitters.13 Because of its potent inhibition of serotonin reuptake, paroxetine is more likely to cause withdrawal effects upon cessation. Paroxetine is well tolerated in most patients with a similar adverse effect profile to other members of its drug class.13 The controlled release formulation was designed to decrease the likelihood of nausea that is sometimes associated with paroxetine.28,36 Paroxetine is indicated for the management of depression, obsessive-compulsive disorder, panic disorder, social anxiety disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, posttraumatic stress disorder.29 One form of paroxetine, commercially known as Brisdelle, is used to manage mild to moderate vasomotor symptoms of menopause.30 Off-label, paroxetine may be used for the treatment of premature ejaculation or irritable bowel syndrome (IBS).4,5,24 Paroxetine treats the symptoms of depression, various anxiety disorders, posttraumatic stress disorder, obsessive-compulsive disorder, and the vasomotor symptoms of menopause via the inhibition of serotonin reuptake.26,29,30 The onset of action of paroxetine is reported to be approximately 6 weeks.19 Due its serotonergic activity, paroxetine, like other SSRI drugs, may potentiate serotonin syndrome. This risk is especially high when monoamine oxidase (MAO) inhibitors are given within 2 weeks of paroxetine administration. Upon cessation of MAO inhibitors, a 2-week interval before paroxetine administration is recommended. Do not coadminister these agents.27 Paroxetine enhances serotonergic activity via the inhibition presynaptic reuptake of serotonin by the serotonin (SERT) receptor.21,11 This inhibition raises the level of serotonin in the synaptic cleft, relieving various symptoms. This drug has been demonstrated to be a stronger inhibitor of serotonin reuptake than other members of the same drug class, including Citalopram, Fluoxetine, and Fluvoxamine.13 The mechanism of action of paroxetine in relieving the vasomotor symptoms of menopause is unknown, according to the Brisdelle prescribing information30, but may occur due to its effects on thermoregulation.25 Paroxetine shows a clinically insignificant affinity for adrenergic alpha-1 and alpha-2 receptors and β-adrenergic receptors, dopamine D1 and D2 receptors, histamine H1 receptors and serotonin 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A and 5-HT2C receptors.13 This drug shows some affinity for muscarinic cholinergic receptors and 5-H2B receptors.22,23 The delayed onset of paroxetine therapeutic effects may be explained by the initial paroxetine actions on the 5-HT neurons. In rats, paroxetine activates 5-HT1A receptors when it is first administered, inhibiting the stimulation of the 5-HT neurons and subsequent release of serotonin at the synaptic cleft.13 Paroxetine is readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Due to the first-pass metabolism, the bioavailability ranges from 30-60%. Cmax is attained 2 to 8 hours after an oral dose.7 Mean Tmax is 4.3 hours in healthy patients.31 The steady-state concentration of paroxetine is achieved within 7 to 14 days of oral therapy.13 In a pharmacokinetic study, AUC in healthy patients was 574 ng·h/mL and 1053 ng·h/mL in those with moderate renal impairment.31 Paroxetine has a large volume of distribution and is found throughout the body, including in the central nervous system. Only 1% of the drug is found in the plasma.29
Nitroglycerin | DrugBank Online Nitroglycerin is a vasodilator drug used for the treatment of chest pain and high blood pressure.12,13 It was first approved in 2000 and is currently marketed by Pfizer, and other companies, depending on the dosage form.12,15 Nitroglycerin is available in various forms, including a spray form, sublingual tablet form, intravenous form, extended-release tablet form, and transdermal form. A less commonly known fact is that in addition to treating angina, nitroglycerin is also used in an ointment to treat the pain that accompanies anal fissures. The rectal ointment form of nitroglycerin was approved by the FDA in 1955.14 Nitroglycerin is indicated for various purposes.15 It is indicated to prevent and treat angina or chest pain due to cardiovascular disease, as well as to treat peri-operative hypertension or induce intra-operative hypotension.13,16 It is also indicated to treat acute heart failure in patients with myocardial infarction.16 In the ointment form, nitroglycerin is indicated to treat pain caused by anal fissures.14 The transdermal form is applied directly to the skin to prevent acute anginal attacks.20  The intravenous form is used off-label in emergency settings and is commonly used to treat acute coronary spasm caused by cocaine, hypertensive emergencies, as well as acute congestive heart failure exacerbations.12 Some other off-label uses of nitroglycerin include management of variceal hemorrhage10, management of esophageal spasticity11, and induction of uterine relaxation.9 Nitroglycerin causes the relaxation of vascular smooth muscles, causing arteriolar and venous dilatation. It reduces cardiac preload and afterload and reduces coronary artery spasm, decreasing systemic vascular resistance as well as systolic and diastolic blood pressure.13 The reduction of cardiac work by nitroglycerin is thought to cause the most relief of anginal symptoms, with some contributions from arteriolar dilatation effects.12 Nitroglycerin is converted by mitochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase (mtALDH) to nitric oxide (NO), an active substance which then activates the enzyme guanylate cyclase.2 The activation of this enzyme is followed by the synthesis of cyclic guanosine 3',5'-monophosphate (cGMP), activating a cascade of protein kinase-dependent phosphorylation events in smooth muscles. This process eventually leads to the dephosphorylation of the myosin light chain of smooth muscles, causing relaxation and increased blood flow in veins, arteries and cardiac tissue.3,12. The above processes lead to decreased work of the heart decreased blood pressure, relief of anginal symptoms, and increased blood flow to the myocardium.3,12,17One in vitro study using mouse aorta suggests that nitric oxide (an activated metabolite of nitroglycerin) targets the natriuretic peptide receptors.7  Nitroglycerin is rapidly absorbed and is often used in emergency situations for this reason.12 After a sublingual dose of 0.5 mg of nitroglycerin, peak concentration was reached by an average of in 4.4 minutes after administration and was measured to be 2.56 ng/ml.4  Cmax following a 0.6mg dose of sublingual nitroglycerin was measured to be 2.1 ng/mL and AUC was 14.9 minutes, and Tmax was 7.2 minutes.13 Absolute bioavailability after the administration of sublingual nitroglycerin tablets is about 40%. The bioavailability of nitroglycerin depends on factors such as mucosal metabolism and hydration status, which both affect the absorption of sublingual drugs.13 The volume of distribution of nitroglycerin is 3 L/kg.16 After a sublingual dose of nitroglycerin, at concentrations in the plasma ranging from 50 to 500 ng/mL, plasma protein binding of nitroglycerin is about 60%. The plasma protein binding of the metabolites 1,2-dinitroglycerin is 60% and that of 1,3-dinitroglycerin is 30%.13 The enzyme mitchochondrial aldehyde dehydrogenase is known to cause the bioactivation of nitroglycerin. Nitroglycerin is metabolized to nitrite, 1,2-glyceryl dinitrate, and 1,3 glyceryl dinitrate.8,16 Nitrite is then metabolized to nitric oxide or S-nitrosothiol.8 The 1,2-and 1,3-dinitroglycerols are less potent in strength than nitroglycerin, but they have longer half-lives, explaining some prolonged effects of nitrates. Both dinitrates are subsequently metabolized to mononitrates that are not active on the blood vessels, and to glycerol and carbon dioxide in the final step of metabolism.6,16 Hover over products below to view reaction partners Metabolism is the main route by which nitroglycerin is eliminated from the body.13 In a pharmacokinetic study, the plasma half-life of intravenously administered nitroglycerin was 2.8 ± 0.9 minutes.5 The FDA label for the intravenous form of nitroglycerin indicates a similar plasma half-life of about 3 minutes.16 A pharmacokinetic study using sublingual nitroglycerin estimated the plasma half-life to be approximately 6 minutes.4 The elimination half-lives of 1,2- and 1,3-dinitroglycerin (metabolites of nitroglycerin)range between 32-26 minutes.13 The FDA label for the intravenous form of nitroglycerin estimates clearance to be 1 L/kg/min.16 Apparent clearance after a sublingual dose was measured to be 21.9 L/min in a pharmacokinetic study of 22 patients with ischemic heart disease and angina.4 LD50 information
The oral LD50 of nitroglycerin in rats is 105 mg/kg and the LD50 of the intravenous form in rats is 23.2 mg/kg.18 Overdose information
An overdose of nitroglycerin can lead to a variety of hemodynamic effects. General effects may include vertigo, fever, flushed skin, and diaphoresis. Cardiorespiratory symptoms may include syncope, dyspnea, decreased heart rate, or palpitations. Neurologic manifestations can include paralysis, seizures, coma, and death.16 There are no known antidotes to an overdose of nitroglycerin, and it is not known whether its metabolites can be removed from the circulation.13,16
Diphemanil methylsulfate | DrugBank Online
Risperidone | DrugBank Online Risperidone is a second-generation antipsychotic (SGA) medication used in the treatment of a number of mood and mental health conditions including schizophrenia and bipolar disorder.16 It is one of the most widely used SGAs. Paliperidone, another commonly used SGA, is the primary active metabolite of risperidone (i.e. 9-hydroxyrisperidone).16 Schizophrenia and various mood disorders are thought to be caused by an excess of dopaminergic D2 and serotonergic 5-HT2A activity, resulting in overactivity of central mesolimbic pathways and mesocortical pathways, respectively.14 Risperidone is thought to reduce this overactivity through inhibition of dopaminergic D2 receptors and serotonergic 5-HT2A receptors in the brain.14,3 Risperidone binds with a very high affinity to 5-HT2A receptors, approximately 10-20 fold greater than the drug's binding affinity to D2 receptors,14,3 and carries lesser activity at several off-targets which may responsible for some of its undesirable effects.16 Risperidone is indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia and irritability associated with autistic disorder.16 It is also indicated as monotherapy, or adjunctly with lithium or valproic acid, for the treatment of acute mania or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I disorder.16 Risperidone is additionally indicated in Canada for the short-term symptomatic management of aggression or psychotic symptoms in patients with severe dementia of the Alzheimer type unresponsive to nonpharmacological approaches.19 Risperidone is also used off-label for a number of conditions including as an adjunct to antidepressants in treatment-resistant depression.11 The primary action of risperidone is to decrease dopaminergic and serotonergic pathway activity in the brain, therefore decreasing symptoms of schizophrenia and mood disorders.3,4 Risperidone has a high binding affinity for serotonergic 5-HT2A receptors when compared to dopaminergic D2 receptors in the brain.2,3 Risperidone binds to D2 receptors with a lower affinity than first-generation antipsychotic drugs, which bind with very high affinity. A reduction in extrapyramidal symptoms with risperidone, when compared to its predecessors, is likely a result of its moderate affinity for dopaminergic D2 receptors.7,5 Though its precise mechanism of action is not fully understood, current focus is on the ability of risperidone to inhibit the D2 dopaminergic receptors and 5-HT2A serotonergic receptors in the brain. Schizophrenia is thought to result from an excess of dopaminergic D2 and serotonergic 5-HT2A activity, resulting in overactivity of central mesolimbic pathways and mesocortical pathways, respectively.3,4,5 D2 dopaminergic receptors are transiently inhibited by risperidone, reducing dopaminergic neurotransmission, therefore decreasing positive symptoms of schizophrenia, such as delusions and hallucinations. Risperidone binds transiently and with loose affinity to the dopaminergic D2 receptor, with an ideal receptor occupancy of 60-70% for optimal effect.7,10 Rapid dissociation of risperidone from the D2 receptors contributes to decreased risk of extrapyramidal symptoms (EPS), which occur with permanent and high occupancy blockade of D2 dopaminergic receptors.6,7 Low-affinity binding and rapid dissociation from the D2 receptor distinguish risperidone from the traditional antipsychotic drugs. A higher occupancy rate of D2 receptors is said to increase the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms and is therefore to be avoided.6,7,8  Increased serotonergic mesocortical activity in schizophrenia results in negative symptoms, such as depression and decreased motivation.14 The high-affinity binding of risperidone to 5-HT2A receptors leads to a decrease in serotonergic activity. In addition, 5-HT2A receptor blockade results in decreased risk of extrapyramidal symptoms, likely by increasing dopamine release from the frontal cortex, and not the nigrostriatal tract. Dopamine level is therefore not completely inhibited.5,7 Through the above mechanisms, both serotonergic and D2 blockade by risperidone are thought to synergistically work to decrease the risk of extrapyramidal symptoms.  Risperidone has also been said to be an antagonist of alpha-1 (α1), alpha-2 (α2), and histamine (H1) receptors.[L1212] Blockade of these receptors is thought to improve symptoms of schizophrenia, however the exact mechanism of action on these receptors is not fully understood at this time.14 Well absorbed. The absolute oral bioavailability of risperidone is 70% (CV=25%). The relative oral bioavailability of risperidone from a tablet is 94% (CV=10%) when compared to a solution.16 The volume of distribution of risperidone is approximately 1 to 2 L/kg.16 Risperidone and its active metabolite, 9-hydroxyrisperidone, are ~88% and ~77% protein-bound in human plasma, respectively.9,16 They each bind to both serum albumin and alpha-1-acid glycoprotein.16 Extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P450 2D6 isozyme to 9-hydroxyrisperidone (i.e. paliperidone), which has approximately the same receptor binding affinity as risperidone.6,9 Hydroxylation is dependent on debrisoquine 4-hydroxylase and metabolism is sensitive to genetic polymorphisms in debrisoquine 4-hydroxylase.9 Risperidone also undergoes N-dealkylation to a lesser extent.7,9 Hover over products below to view reaction partners Risperidone is extensively metabolized in the liver. In healthy elderly subjects, renal clearance of both risperidone and 9-hydroxyrisperidone was decreased, and elimination half-lives are prolonged compared to young healthy subjects.9,15 3 hours in extensive metabolizers9
Zileuton | DrugBank Online Leukotrienes are substances that induce numerous biological effects including augmentation of neutrophil and eosinophil migration, neutrophil and monocyte aggregation, leukocyte adhesion, increased capillary permeability, and smooth muscle contraction. These effects contribute to inflammation, edema, mucus secretion, and bronchoconstriction in the airways of asthmatic patients. Zileuton relieves such symptoms through its selective inhibition of 5-lipoxygenase, the enzyme that catalyzes the formation of leukotrienes from arachidonic acid. Specifically, it inhibits leukotriene LTB4, LTC4, LTD4, and LTE4 formation. Both the R(+) and S(-) enantiomers are pharmacologically active as 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors in in vitro systems. The immediate release tablet of Zileuton has been withdrawn from the US market. For the prophylaxis and chronic treatment of asthma in adults and children 12 years of age and older. Zileuton is an asthma drug that differs chemically and pharmacologically from other antiasthmatic agents. It blocks leukotriene synthesis by inhibiting 5-lipoxygenase, an enzyme of the eicosanoid synthesis pathway. Current data indicates that asthma is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the airways involving the production and activity of several endogenous inflammatory mediators, including leukotrienes. Sulfido-peptide leukotrienes (LTC4, LTD4, LTE4, also known as the slow-releasing substances of anaphylaxis) and LTB4, a chemoattractant for neutrophils and eosinophils, are derived from the initial unstable product of arachidonic acid metabolism, leukotriene A4 (LTA4), and can be measured in a number of biological fluids including bronchoalveolar lavage fluid (BALF) from asthmatic patients. In humans, pretreatment with zileuton attenuated bronchoconstriction caused by cold air challenge in patients with asthma. Leukotrienes are substances that induce numerous biological effects including augmentation of neutrophil and eosinophil migration, neutrophil and monocyte aggregation, leukocyte adhesion, increased capillary permeability, and smooth muscle contraction. These effects contribute to inflammation, edema, mucus secretion, and bronchoconstriction in the airways of asthmatic patients. Zileuton relieves such symptoms through its selective inhibition of 5-lipoxygenase, the enzyme that catalyzes the formation of leukotrienes from arachidonic acid. Specifically, it inhibits leukotriene LTB4, LTC4, LTD4, and LTE4 formation. Both the R(+) and S(-) enantiomers are pharmacologically active as 5-lipoxygenase inhibitors in in vitro systems. Due to the role of leukotrienes in the pathogenesis of asthma, modulation of leukotriene formation by interruption of 5-lipoxygenase activity may reduce airway symptoms, decrease bronchial smooth muscle tone, and improve asthma control. Rapidly and almost completely absorbed. The absolute bioavailability is unknown. 93% bound to plasma proteins, primarily to albumin. Hepatic. Zileuton and its N-dehydroxylated metabolite are oxidatively metabolized by the cytochrome P450 isoenzymes 1A2, 2C9 and 3A4. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Elimination of zileuton is predominantly via metabolism with a mean terminal half-life of 2.5 hours.
Carbinoxamine | DrugBank Online Carbinoxamine is a first generation antihistamine that competes with free histamine for binding at HA-receptor sites. This antagonizes the effects of histamine on HA-receptors, leading to a reduction of the negative symptoms brought on by histamine HA-receptor binding. The product label for carbinoxamine as an over the counter cough and cold medicine is being modified to state "do not use" in children under 4 years of age in order to prevent and reduce misuse, as many unapproved carbinoxamine-containing preparations contained inappropriate labeling, which promoted unapproved uses (including management of congestion, cough, the common cold, and the use in children under 2 years of age), which can potentially cause serious health risks. For symptomatic relief of seasonal and perennial allergic rhinitis and vasomotor rhinitis, as well as allergic conjunctivitis caused by foods and inhaled allergens. Also for the relief of allergic reactions to blood or plasma, and the symptomatic management of mild, uncomplicated allergic skin manifestations of urticaria and angioedema. Carbinoxamine is a first generation antihistamine of the ethanolamine class. Ethanolamine antihistamines have significant antimuscarinic activity and produce marked sedation in most patients. In addition to the usual allergic symptoms, the drug also treats irritant cough and nausea, vomiting, and vertigo associated with motion sickness. It also is used commonly to treat drug-induced extrapyramidal symptoms as well as to treat mild cases of Parkinson's disease. Rather than preventing the release of histamine, as do cromolyn and nedocromil, carbinoxamine competes with free histamine for binding at HA-receptor sites. Carbinoxamine competitively antagonizes the effects of histamine on HA-receptors in the GI tract, uterus, large blood vessels, and bronchial muscle. Ethanolamine derivatives have greater anticholinergic activity than do other antihistamines, which probably accounts for the antidyskinetic action of carbinoxamine. Carbinoxamine competes with free histamine for binding at HA-receptor sites. This antagonizes the effects of histamine on HA-receptors, leading to a reduction of the negative symptoms brought on by histamine HA-receptor binding. Carbinoxamine's anticholinergic action appears to be due to a central antimuscarinic effect, which also may be responsible for its antiemetic effects, although the exact mechanism is unknown. 10 to 20 hours Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Tilford. C.H. and Shelton, R.S.; U.S. Patent 2,606,195;August 5,1952; assigned to The Wm.S. Merrell Company.
Hexachlorophene | DrugBank Online A chlorinated bisphenol antiseptic with a bacteriostatic action against Gram-positive organisms, but much less effective against Gram-negative organisms. It is mainly used in soaps and creams and is an ingredient of various preparations used for skin disorders. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p797) For use as a surgical scrub and a bacteriostatic skin cleanser. It may also be used to control an outbreak of gram-positive infection where other infection control procedures have been unsuccessful. Hexachlorophene, a detergent cleanser, is an antibacterial sudsing emulsion for topical administration. It is a bacteriostatic cleansing agent. It cleanses the skin thoroughly and has bacteriostatic action against staphylococci and other gram-positive bacteria. Cumulative antibacterial action develops with repeated use. Cleansing with alcohol or soaps containing alcohol removes the antibacterial residue. The primary mechanism of action of hexachlorophene, based on studies with Bacillus megatherium, is to inhibit the membrane-bound part of the electron transport chain, respiratory D-lactate dehydrogenase. It induces leakage, causes protoplast lysis, and inhibits respiration. Detectable blood levels of hexachlorophene following absorption through intact skin have been found in subjects who regularly scrubbed with hexachlorophene. 92% Oral, rat LD50: 66 mg/kg. Signs of overdose include anorexia, vomiting, abdominal cramps, diarrhea, dehydration, convulsions, hypotension, and shock, and in several reported instances, fatalities. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. U.S. Patent 2,250,480
U.S. Patent 2,435,593
Benzquinamide | DrugBank Online Benzquinamide is a discontinued antiemetic compound with antihistaminic, mild anticholinergic, and sedative properties. The mechanism of action is not known, but presumably benzquinamide works via antagonism of muscarinic acetycholine receptors and histamine H1 receptors.  Used to prevent and treat nausea and vomiting associated with anesthesia and surgery, administered intramuscularly or intravenously. Benzquinamide is an antiemetic compound with antihistaminic, mild anticholinergic, and sedative properties. The mechanism of action is not known, but presumably benzquinamide works via antagonism of muscarinic acetycholine receptors and histamine H1 receptors. Incomplete, with 33–39% bioavailability via the capsule and suppository routes, relative to the intramuscular route. 1-1.6 hours (for all formulations) Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Tretter, J.R.; US. Patent 3,053,845; September 11, 1962; assigned to Chas. Pfizer & Co.,
Inc.
Lombardino, J.G. and McLamore, W.M.; U.S. Patent 3,055,894; September 25,1962;
Clidinium | DrugBank Online Clidinium is a synthetic anticholinergic agent which has been shown in experimental and clinical studies to have a pronounced antispasmodic and antisecretory effect on the gastrointestinal tract. It inhibits muscarinic actions of acetylcholine at postganglionic parasympathetic neuroeffector sites. It is used for the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and also to help relieve abdominal or stomach spasms or cramps due to colicky abdominal pain, diverticulitis, and irritable bowel syndrome. For the treatment of peptic ulcer disease and also to help relieve abdominal or stomach spasms or cramps due to colicky abdominal pain, diverticulitis, and irritable bowel syndrome. Clidinium is a synthetic anticholinergic agent which has been shown in experimental and clinical studies to have a pronounced antispasmodic and antisecretory effect on the gastrointestinal tract. Inhibits muscarinic actions of acetylcholine at postganglionic parasympathetic neuroeffector sites primarily by inhibiting the M1 muscarinic receptors. Signs of toxicity include confusion, paralytic ileus, urinary hesitancy/retention, and blurred vision. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Sternbach, L.H.; US. Patent 2,648,667; August 11,1953; assigned to Hoffmann-LaRoche,
Etoposide | DrugBank Online A semisynthetic derivative of podophyllotoxin that exhibits antitumor activity. Etoposide inhibits DNA synthesis by forming a complex with topoisomerase II and DNA. This complex induces breaks in double stranded DNA and prevents repair by topoisomerase II binding. Accumulated breaks in DNA prevent entry into the mitotic phase of cell division, and lead to cell death. Etoposide acts primarily in the G2 and S phases of the cell cycle. For use in combination with other chemotherapeutic agents in the treatment of refractory testicular tumors and as first line treatment in patients with small cell lung cancer. Also used to treat other malignancies such as lymphoma, non-lymphocytic leukemia, and glioblastoma multiforme. Etoposide is an antineoplastic agent and an epipodophyllotoxin (a semisynthetic derivative of the podophyllotoxins). It inhibits DNA topoisomerase II, thereby ultimately inhibiting DNA synthesis. Etoposide is cell cycle dependent and phase specific, affecting mainly the S and G2 phases. Two different dose-dependent responses are seen. At high concentrations (10 µg/mL or more), lysis of cells entering mitosis is observed. At low concentrations (0.3 to 10 µg/mL), cells are inhibited from entering prophase. It does not interfere with microtubular assembly. The predominant macromolecular effect of etoposide appears to be the induction of DNA strand breaks by an interaction with DNA-topoisomerase II or the formation of free radicals. Etoposide inhibits DNA topoisomerase II, thereby inhibiting DNA re-ligation. This causes critical errors in DNA synthesis at the premitotic stage of cell division and can lead to apoptosis of the cancer cell. Etoposide is cell cycle dependent and phase specific, affecting mainly the S and G2 phases of cell division. Inhibition of the topoisomerase II alpha isoform results in the anti-tumour activity of etoposide. The drug is also capable of inhibiting the beta isoform but inhibition of this target is not associated with the anti-tumour activity. It is instead associated with the carcinogenic effect.  Absorbed well, time to peak plasma concentration is 1-1.5 hrs. Mean bioavailability is 50% (range of 25% - 75%). Cmax and AUC values for orally administered etoposide capsules display intra- and inter-subject variability. There is no evidence of first-pass effect for etoposide.  The disposition of etoposide is a biphasic process with a distribution half-life of 1.5 hours. It does not cross into cerebrospinal fluid well.
Nalidixic acid | DrugBank Online Nalidixic acid is a synthetic 1,8-naphthyridine antimicrobial agent with a limited bacteriocidal spectrum. It is an inhibitor of the A subunit of bacterial DNA gyrase. For the treatment of urinary tract infections caused by susceptible gram-negative microorganisms, including the majority of E. Coli, Enterobacter species, Klebsiella species, and Proteus species. Nalidixic acid is a quinolone antibacterial agent for oral administration. Nalidixic acid has marked antibacterial activity against gram-negative bacteria including Enterobacter species, Escherichia coli, Morganella Morganii; Proteus Mirabilis, Proteus vulgaris, and Providencia rettgeri. Pseudomonas species are generally resistant to the drug. Nalidixic acid is bactericidal and is effective over the entire urinary pH range. Conventional chromosomal resistance to nalidixic acid taken in full dosage has been reported to emerge in approximately 2 to 14 percent of patients during treatment; however, bacterial resistance to nalidixic acid has not been shown to be transferable via R factor. Evidence exists for Nalidixic acid that its active metabolite, hydroxynalidixic acid, binds strongly, but reversibly, to DNA, interfering with synthesis of RNA and, consequently, with protein synthesis. Following oral administration, nalidixic acid is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Bioavailability is approximately 96%. Absorption may be delayed if taken with antacids. Nalidixic acid is 93% bound to protein in the blood, and the active metabolite, hydroxynalidixic acid is 63% bound. Hepatic. 30% of administered dose is metabolized to the active metabolite, hydroxynalidixic acid. Rapid conjugation of parent drug and active metabolite to inactive metabolites. Metabolism may vary widely among individuals. In the urine, hydroxynalidixic acid represents 80 to 85% of the antibacterial activity. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Following oral administration, NegGram is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract, partially metabolized in the liver, and rapidly excreted through the kidneys.
Gadopentetic acid | DrugBank Online A complex of gadolinium with a chelating agent, diethylenetriamine penta-acetic acid (DTPA see pentetic acid), that is given to enhance the image in cranial and spinal MRIs. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p706) For use with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in adults, and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) to visualize lesions with abnormal vascularity in the brain (intracranial lesions), spine and associated tissues as well as lesions with abnormal vascularity in the head and neck. Also used to facilitate the visualization of lesions with abnormal vascularity in the body (excluding the heart). Based on the behavior of protons when placed in a strong magnetic field, which is interpreted and transformed into images by magnetic resonance (MR) instruments. MR images are based primarily on proton density and proton relaxation dynamics. MR instruments are sensitive to two different relaxation processes, the T1 (spin-lattice or longitudinal relaxation time) and T2 (spin-spin or transverse relaxation time). Paramagnetic agents contain one or more unpaired electrons that enhance the T1 and T2 relaxation rates of protons in their molecular environment. The proton relaxation effect (PRE) of an unpaired electron is 700 times stronger than that of a proton itself. In MRI, visualization of normal and pathological brain tissue depends in part on variations in the radio frequency signal intensity that occur with changes in proton density, alteration of the T1, and variation in T2. When placed in a magnetic field, gadopentetate dimeglumine shortens the T1 and T2 relaxation times in tissues where it accumulates. In the central nervous system (CNS), gadopentetate dimeglumine enhances visualization of normal tissues that lack a blood-brain barrier, such as the pituitary gland and the meninges. Gadopentetate dimeglumine does not cross the intact blood-brain barrier; therefore, it does not accumulate in normal brain tissue or in CNS lesions that have not caused an abnormal blood-brain barrier (e.g., cysts, mature post-operative scars). Abnormal vascularity or disruption of the blood-brain barrier allows accumulation of gadopentetate dimeglumine in lesions such as neoplasms, abscesses, and subacute infarcts. Outside the CNS, gadopentetate dimeglumine rapidly reaches equilibrium in the interstitial compartment and enhances signal in all tissues as a function of delivery and size of the interstitial compartment.
Gentamicin | DrugBank Online A complex of three different closely related aminoglycoside sulfates, Gentamicins C1, C2, and C1a, obtained from Micromonospora purpurea and related species. They are broad-spectrum antibiotics, but may cause ear and kidney damage. They act to inhibit protein synthesis (genetic translation). For treatment of serious infections caused by susceptible strains of the following microorganisms: P. aeruginosa, Proteus species (indole-positive and indole-negative), E. coli, Klebsiella-Enterobactor-Serratia species, Citrobacter species and Staphylococcus species (coagulase-positive and coagulase-negative). Gentamicin is a broad spectrum aminoglycoside antibiotic. Aminoglycosides work by binding to the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit, causing misreading of t-RNA, leaving the bacterium unable to synthesize proteins vital to its growth. Aminoglycosides are useful primarily in infections involving aerobic, Gram-negative bacteria, such as Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter, and Enterobacter. In addition, some mycobacteria, including the bacteria that cause tuberculosis, are susceptible to aminoglycosides. Infections caused by Gram-positive bacteria can also be treated with aminoglycosides, but other types of antibiotics are more potent and less damaging to the host. In the past the aminoglycosides have been used in conjunction with penicillin-related antibiotics in streptococcal infections for their synergistic effects, particularly in endocarditis. Aminoglycosides are mostly ineffective against anaerobic bacteria, fungi and viruses. Aminoglycosides like gentamicin "irreversibly" bind to specific 30S-subunit proteins and 16S rRNA. Specifically gentamicin binds to four nucleotides of 16S rRNA and a single amino acid of protein S12. This interferes with decoding site in the vicinity of nucleotide 1400 in 16S rRNA of 30S subunit. This region interacts with the wobble base in the anticodon of tRNA. This leads to interference with the initiation complex, misreading of mRNA so incorrect amino acids are inserted into the polypeptide leading to nonfunctional or toxic peptides and the breakup of polysomes into nonfunctional monosomes. Injections lead to peak serum concentrations in 30-60 minutes. Topical gentamicin is readily absorbed from large burned, denuded, or granulating areas but not through intact skin. Absorption of gentamicin is faster and greater with the cream compared to the ointment. Gentamicin is absorbed in small quantities following topical application to the eye. Gentamicin is also absorbed in small amounts following topical application to the ear (especially if the eardrum is perforated or if tissue damage is present). Gentamicin is very poorly absorbed orally.  Low (between 0 and 30%) 3-3½ hours in infants one week to six months of age; this increases to 5½ hours in full-term and large premature infants less than one week old. Mild and reversible nephrotoxicity may be observed in 5 - 25% of patients. Gentamicin accumulates in proximal renal tubular cells and causes cell damage. Tubular cell regeneration occurs despite continued drug exposure. Toxicity usually occurs several days following initiation of therapy. May cause irreversible ototoxicity. Otoxocity appears to be correlated to cumulative lifetime exposure. Drug accumulation in the endolymph and perilymph of the inner ear causes irreversible damage to hair cells of the cochlea or summit of ampullar cristae in the vestibular complex. High frequency hearing is lost first with progression leading to loss of low frequency hearing. Further toxicity may lead to retrograde degeneration of the 8th cranial (vestibulocochlear) nerve. Vestibular toxicity may cause vertigo, nausea, vomiting, dizziness and loss of balance.
Fenoldopam | DrugBank Online A dopamine D1 receptor agonist that is used as an antihypertensive agent. It lowers blood pressure through arteriolar vasodilation. For the in-hospital, short-term (up to 48 hours) management of severe hypertension when rapid, but quickly reversible, emergency reduction of blood pressure is clinically indicated, including malignant hypertension with deteriorating end-organ function. Fenoldopam is an agonist at D1-like dopamine receptors, binds to α2-adrenoceptors, increasing renal blood flow. Fenoldopam is a rapid-acting vasodilator. It is an agonist for D1-like dopamine receptors and binds with moderate affinity to α2-adrenoceptors. It has no significant affinity for D2-like receptors, α1 and β-adrenoceptors, 5HT1 and 5HT2 receptors, or muscarinic receptors. Fenoldopam is a racemic mixture with the R-isomer responsible for the biological activity. The R-isomer has approximately 250-fold higher affinity for D1-like receptors than does the S-isomer. In non-clinical studies, fenoldopam had no agonist effect on presynaptic D2-like dopamine receptors, or α or β -adrenoceptors, nor did it affect angiotensin-converting enzyme activity. Fenoldopam may increase norepinephrine plasma concentration. Elimination is largely by conjugation, without participation of cytochrome P-450 enzymes. Methylation, glucuronidation, and sulfation are the main routes of conjugation. Radiolabeled studies show that about 90% of infused fenoldopam is eliminated in urine, 10% in feces.
Dicyclomine | DrugBank Online Dicyclomine is a muscarinic M1 and M2 receptor antagonist as well as a non-competitive inhibitor of histamine and bradykinin used to treat spasms of the intestines seen in functional bowel disorder and irritable bowel syndrome.3,4,5 Though it is commonly prescribed, its recommendation may have been based on a small amount of evidence and so its prescription is becoming less favourable.6 Dicyclomine was granted FDA approval on 11 May 1950.5 Dicyclomine is indicated for the treatment of functional bowel disorder and irritable bowel syndrome.5 Dicyclomine is an anticholinergic drug used to relax the smooth muscles of the intestines.5 It's duration of action is not especially long as it is usually taken 4 times daily with individual doses of 20-40mg orally or 10-20mg by intramuscular injection.5 Dicyclomine should not be administered intravenously.5 Dicyclomine achieves its action partially through direct antimuscarinic activity of the M1 and M2 receptors, and partially through antagonism of bradykinin and histamine.3,4,5 Dicyclomine non-competitively inhibits the action of bradykinin and histamine, resulting in direct action on the smooth muscle, and decreased strength of contractions seen in spasms of the ileum.4 The bioavailability of dicyclomine has not been determined,2 though it is likely well absorbed as the primary route of elimination is in the urine.1,5 Dicyclomine has a Tmax of 1-1.5h.5 The volume of distribution for a 20mg oral dose is 3.65L/kg.5 Data regarding plasma protein binding of dicyclomine is not readily available.5 The metabolism of dicyclomine has not been well researched.1 Dicyclomine is 79.5% eliminated in the urine and 8.4% in the feces.1,5 The mean plasma elimination half life is approximately 1.8 hours.1,5 Data regarding the clearance of dicyclomine is not readily available.5 Patients experiencing an overdose may present with headache, nausea, vomiting, blurred vision, dilated pupils, dizziness, dry mouth, difficulty swallowing, CNS stimulation, as well as hot, dry skin.5 Treat patients with gastric lavage, emetics, activated charcoal, sedatives for excitement, and a cholinergic agent if indicated.5 The oral LD50 in mice is 625mg/kg.5 Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Van Campen, M.G. Jr. and Tilford, C.H.; US.Patent 2,474,796; June 28, 1949; assigned to
Indapamide | DrugBank Online The most significant modifiable risk factor for cardiovascular disease and the most prominent contributor to all-cause mortality is hypertension.17 Characterized by an office blood pressure of ≥140/90, hypertension is pervasive and impacts an estimated 25% of adults globally.17 Treatment for hypertension should include a number of lifestyle changes (ie. reduced sodium intake) along with pharmacotherapy - it should be noted that treatment with several antihypertensive agents may be required in order to achieve blood pressure targets.17 Thiazide-like diuretics such as indapamide are a valuable tool for the treatment of hypertension and continue to grow in popularity, falling behind only ACE inhibitors in terms of prescription frequency.16 When compared to hydrochlorothiazide (another commonly prescribed diuretic), indapamide has been shown to be superior at lowering systolic blood pressure, reducing left ventricular mass index, lowering oxidative stress, inhibiting platelet aggregation, and reducing microalbuminuria associated with diabetes.16 Interestingly, unlike thiazide diuretics, several sources suggest that indapamide is not associated with glucose or lipid disturbances.16,19  Indapamide is characterized by both a methylindoline and a sulfamoyl chlorobenzamide functional group, with the former being largely responsible for the molecule’s lipid solubility.18 Indapamide is a diuretic indicated for use as monotherapy or in combination with other blood pressure-lowering agents to treat hypertension.23 It may also be used to treat fluid and salt retention associated with congestive heart failure.23 Classified as a sulfonamide diuretic, indapamide is an effective antihypertensive agent and by extension, has shown efficacy in the prevention of target organ damage.2,3
Ribavirin | DrugBank Online Producing a broad-spectrum activity against several RNA and DNA viruses, Ribavirin is a synthetic guanosine nucleoside and antiviral agent that interferes with the synthesis of viral mRNA. It is primarily indicated for use in treating hepatitis C and viral hemorrhagic fevers. HCV is a single-stranded RNA virus that is categorized into nine distinct genotypes, with genotype 1 being the most common in the United States, and affecting 72% of all chronic HCV patients 9. It is reported that ribavirin might be only effective in early stages of viral hemorrhagic fevers including Lasser fever, Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever, Venezuelan hemorrhagic fever, and Hantavirus infection. Ribavirin is a prodrug that is metabolized into nucleoside analogs that blocks viral RNA synthesis and viral mRNA capping. Before the development of newer drugs, ribavirin and Peginterferon alfa-2a/Peginterferon alfa-2b dual therapy was considered the first-generation and standard antiviral treatment 5. The dual therapy was administered for 48 weeks in patients with genotype 1, 4, 5, and 6, and 24 weeks in patients with genotype 2 and 3 5. Newer drugs developed as Hepatitis C viral infection treatments can be used to reduce or eliminate the use of ribavirin, which are associated with serious adverse effects. They also improve therapeutic efficacy in patients with failed Peginterferon alfa-2a/Peginterferon alfa-2b and ribavirin-based therapy. The potential use of ribavirin as a treatment for acute myeloid leukemia is currently under investigation. According to 2017 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) and 2015 consensus guidelines from the Canadian Association for the Study of the Liver (CASL), ribavirin is typically used as an adjunct therapy to various first-line and second-line combination therapies recommended for each genotypes. Ribavirin is added to decrease relapse rates by accelerating viral clearance early in the treatment course 7. When used to treat Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections, it is always used as a part of combination therapies as ribavirin monotherapy is not efficacious in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection 6. Additionally, including ribavirin in the regimen can increase the risk of anemia.  In HCV genotye 1/2/3/4/5/6 patients, ribavirin can be used in combination therapy involving Daclatasvir and Sofosbuvir, Eplusa (Sofosbuvir, Velpatasvir), Harvoni (Sofosbuvir, Ledipasvir), Simeprevir and Sofosbuvir, Viekira Pak (Ombitasvir, Paritaprevir, Ritonavir, Dasabuvir), Technivie (Ritonavir, Ombitasvir, Paritaprevir) and Zepatier (Elbasvir, Grazoprevir). Addition of weight-based ribavirin to Technivie therapy increased sustained virologic response after 12 weeks of daily therapy (SVR12) from 90% to 97% in patients with HCV genotype 1a and 90.9% to 100% in HCV genotype 4 patients 9. Zepatier therapy along with ribavirin improved SVR in HCV genotype 5 patients. Combination therapy of ribavirin and Peginterferon alfa-2a results in the SVR of 44% in patients with genotype 1 infection and 70% in patients with genotype 2-6. The inclusion of ribavirin in the combination therapies depend on individual patient's profile, for example if HCV genotype 3 patient has a Y93H genetic variant and compensated cirrhosis. Indicated for the treatment of chronic Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in combination with other antiviral agents with the intent to cure or achieve a sustained virologic response (SVR). Typically added to improve SVR and reduce relapse rates 6. The addition of ribavirin in Technivie therapy indicated for treating HCV genotype 1a and 4 infections is recommended in patients with or without cirrhosis.  Resistance: viral genetic determinants resulting in variable response to ribavirin therapy has not been yet determined.  Ribavirin mediates direct antiviral activity against a number of DNA and RNA viruses by increasing the mutation frequency in the genomes of several RNA viruses. It is a member of the nucleoside antimetabolite drugs that interfere with duplication of the viral genetic material. The drug inhibits the activity of the enzyme RNA dependent RNA polymerase, due to its resemblence to building blocks of the RNA molecules.  Ribavirin is reported to have several mechanism of actions that lead to inhibition of viral RNA and protein synthesis.
After activation by adenosine kinase to ribavirin mono-, di-, and triphosphate metabolites. Ribavirin triphosphate (RTP) is the predominant metabolite which directly inhibits viral mRNA polymerase by binding to the nucleotide binding site of the enzyme. This prevents the binding of the correct nucleotides, leading to a reduction in viral replication or to the production of defective virions 7. RTP also demonstrates an inhibitory action on viral mRNA guanylyltransferase and mRNA 2′-O-methyltransferase of dengue virus. Inhibition of these enzymes disrupts the posttranslational capping of the 5′ end of viral mRNA through ribavirin being incorporated at the 5′ end in place of guanosine and preventing the cap methylation step.  Inhibition of host inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH) and subsequent depletion of GTP pool is proposed to be another mechanism of action of ribavirin. IMPDH catalyzes the rate-limiting step where inosine 5′-monophosphate is converted to xanthine monophosphate during guanosine monophosphate (GMP) synthesis. GMP is later converted to guanosine triphoshpate (GTP). Ribavirin monophosphate mimics inosine 5′-monophosphate and acts as a competitive inhibitor of IMPDH. Inhibited de novo synthesis of guanine nucleotides and decreased intracellular GTP pools leads to a decline in viral protein synthesis and limit replication of viral genomes 7. Ribavirin acts as a mutagen in the target virus to cause an 'error catastrophe' due to increased viral mutations. RTP pairs with cytidine triphosphate or uridine triphosphate with equal efficiency and to block HCV RNA elongation. It causes premature termination of nascent HCV RNA and increases mutagenesis by producing defective virions 7. Ribavirin also exerts an immunomodulatory action of the host to the virus by shifting a Th2 response in favor of a Th1 phenotype. Th2 response and production of type 2 cytokines such as IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10 stimulates the humoral response which enhances immunity toward the virus 7. Ribavirin enhanced induction of interferon-related genes, including the interferon-α receptor, and down-regulation of genes involved in interferon inhibition, apoptosis, and hepatic stellate cell activation in vitro 6.  Ribavirin is reported to be rapidly and extensively absorbed following oral administration. The average time to reach Cmax was 2 hours after oral administration of 1200 mg ribavirin Label. The oral bioavailability is 64% following a single oral dose administration of 600mg ribavirin 10.  Ribavirin displays a large volume of distribution Label.  No protein binding reported 10.  First and as a step required for activation, ribavirin is phosphorylated intracellularly by adenosine kinase to ribavirin mono-, di-, and triphosphate metabolites. After activation and function, ribavirin undergoes two metabolic pathways where it is reversibly phosphorlyated or degraded via deribosylation and amide hydrolysis to yield a triazole carboxylic acid metabolite. In vitro studies indicate that ribavirin is not a substrate of CYP450 enzymes 10. The metabolites of ribavirin are renally excreted. After the oral administration of 600mg radiolabeled ribavirin, approximately 61% of the drug was detected in the urine and 12% was detected in the feces. 17% of administered dose was in unchanged form 10. The terminal half-life of ribavirin following administration of a single oral dose of 1200 mg is about 120 to 170 hours Label. The total apparent clearance rate after a single oral dose administration of 1200 mg ribavirin is 26L/h Label.  Rivabirin and PEG-Interferon Alfa-2A dual therapy is associated with flu-like symptoms, depression, suicide, insomnia, irritability, relapse of drug abuse/overdose, hepatic decompensation in 2% of HIV co-infected patients and bacterial infections each occurring at a frequency of less than 1%.
Ribavirin-induced anemia is a dose-dependent adverse effect where reduced hemoglobin levels can be seen within the first 1-2 weeks in therapy. The mechanism of ribavirin-induced anemia has been shown to involve reductions in reticulocyte counts and erythrocyte Na-K pump activity, and increases in K-Cl cotransport, membrane bound IgG, and C3, and erythrocyte band 3 6.
Propofol | DrugBank Online Propofol is an intravenous anaesthetic agent used for induction and maintenance of general anaesthesia. IV administration of propfol is used to induce unconsciousness after which anaesthesia may be maintained using a combination of medications. Recovery from propofol-induced anaesthesia is generally rapid and associated with less frequent side effects (e.g. drowsiness, nausea, vomiting) than with thiopental, methohexital, and etomidate. Propofol may be used prior to diagnostic procedures requiring anaesthesia, in the management of refractory status epilepticus, and for induction and/or maintenance of anaesthesia prior to and during surgeries. Used for induction and/or maintenance of anaesthesia and for management of refractory status epilepticus.  Propofol is a sedative-hypnotic agent for use in the induction and maintenance of anesthesia or sedation. Intravenous injection of a therapeutic dose of propofol produces hypnosis rapidly with minimal excitation, usually within 40 seconds from the start of an injection (the time for one arm-brain circulation). The action of propofol involves a positive modulation of the inhibitory function of the neurotransmitter gama-aminobutyric acid (GABA) through GABA-A receptors. Rapid - time to onset of unconsciousness is 15-30 seconds, due to rapid distribution from plasma to the CNS. Distribution is so rapid that peak plasma concentrations cannot be readily measured. Duration of action is 5-10 minutes.  95 to 99%, primarily to serum albumin and hemoglobin Hepatically metabolized mainly by glucuronidation at the C1-hydroxyl. Hydroxylation of the benzene ring to 4-hydroxypropofol may also occur via CYP2B6 and 2C9 with subsequent conjugation to sulfuric and/or glucuronic acid. Hydroxypropofol has approximately 1/3 of hypnotic activity of propofol.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners It is chiefly eliminated by hepatic conjugation to inactive metabolites which are excreted by the kidney. Initial distribution phase t1/2α=1.8-9.5 minutes. Second redistirubtion phase t1/2β=21-70 minutes. Terminal elimination phase t1/2γ=1.5-31 hours.  Overdosage may increase pharmacologic and adverse effects or cause death.
Carprofen | DrugBank Online Carprofen is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) that is used by veterinarians as a supportive treatment for the relief of arthritic symptoms in geriatric dogs. Carprofen was previously used in human medicine for over 10 years (1985-1995). It was generally well tolerated, with the majority of adverse effects being mild, such as gastro-intestinal pain and nausea, similar to those recorded with aspirin and other non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs. It is no longer marketed for human usage, after being withdrawn on commercial grounds. For use as a pain reliever in the treatment of joint pain and post-surgical pain. Carprofen is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) of the propionic acid class that includes ibuprofen, naproxen, and ketoprofen. It is no longer used in the clinical setting, but is approved for use in dogs. Carprofen is non-narcotic and has characteristic analgesic and antipyretic activity approximately equipotent to indomethacin in animal models. The mechanism of action of carprofen, like that of other NSAIDs, is believed to be associated with the inhibition of cyclooxygenase activity. Two unique cyclooxygenases have been described in mammals. The constitutive cyclooxygenase, COX-1, synthesizes prostaglandins necessary for normal gastrointestinal and renal function. The inducible cyclooxygenase, COX-2, generates prostaglandins involved in inflammation. Inhibition of COX-1 is thought to be associated with gastrointestinal and renal toxicity while inhibition of COX-2 provides anti-inflammatory activity. In an in vitro study using canine cell cultures, carprofen demonstrated selective inhibition of COX-2 versus COX-1. Rapidly and nearly completely absorbed (more than 90% bioavailable) when administered orally. High (99%) Hepatic. Approximately 8 hours (range 4.5–9.8 hours) in dogs. Symptoms of NSAID overdose include dizziness and nystagmus. Oral LD50 in mouse and rat is 282 mg/kg and 149 mg/kg, respectively. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Berger, L. and Corraz, A.J.; US. Patent 3,896,145; July 22,1975; assigned to Hoffmann-
Disulfiram | DrugBank Online A carbamate derivative used as an alcohol deterrent. It is a relatively nontoxic substance when administered alone, but markedly alters the intermediary metabolism of alcohol. When alcohol is ingested after administration of disulfiram, blood acetaldehyde concentrations are increased, followed by flushing, systemic vasodilation, respiratory difficulties, nausea, hypotension, and other symptoms (acetaldehyde syndrome). It acts by inhibiting aldehyde dehydrogenase. For the treatment and management of chronic alcoholism Disulfiram produces a sensitivity to alcohol which results in a highly unpleasant reaction when the patient under treatment ingests even small amounts of alcohol. Disulfiram blocks the oxidation of alcohol at the acetaldehyde stage during alcohol metabolism following disulfiram intake, the concentration of acetaldehyde occurring in the blood may be 5 to 10 times higher than that found during metabolism of the same amount of alcohol alone. Accumulation of acetaldehyde in the blood produces a complex of highly unpleasant symptoms referred to hereinafter as the disulfiram-alcohol reaction. This reaction, which is proportional to the dosage of both disulfiram and alcohol, will persist as long as alcohol is being metabolized. Disulfiram does not appear to influence the rate of alcohol elimination from the body. Prolonged administration of disulfiram does not produce tolerance; the longer a patient remains on therapy, the more exquisitely sensitive he becomes to alcohol. Disulfiram blocks the oxidation of alcohol at the acetaldehyde stage during alcohol metabolism following disulfiram intake causing an accumulation of acetaldehyde in the blood producing highly unpleasant symptoms. Disulfiram blocks the oxidation of alcohol through its irreversible inactivation of aldehyde dehydrogenase, which acts in the second step of ethanol utilization. In addition, disulfiram competitively binds and inhibits the peripheral benzodiazepine receptor, which may indicate some value in the treatment of the symptoms of alcohol withdrawal, however this activity has not been extensively studied. Disulfiram is absorbed slowly from the gastrointestinal tract (80 to 90% of oral dose). Hepatic. LD50=8.6g/kg (orally in rats). Symptoms of overdose include irritation, slight drowsiness, unpleasant taste, mild GI disturbances, and orthostatic hypotension. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Adams, H.S. and Meuser, L.; US.Patent 1,782,111; November 18,1930; assigned to The
Naugatuck Chemical Company.
Bailey, G.C.; U.S.Patent 1,796,977; March 17,1931; assigned to The Roessler & Hasslacher
Diazepam | DrugBank Online A benzodiazepine with anticonvulsant, anxiolytic, sedative, muscle relaxant, and amnesic properties and a long duration of action. Its actions are mediated by enhancement of gamma-aminobutyric acid activity. It is used in the treatment of severe anxiety disorders, as a hypnotic in the short-term management of insomnia, as a sedative and premedicant, as an anticonvulsant, and in the management of alcohol withdrawal syndrome. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p589) Given diazepam's storied history as a commonly used and effective medication for a variety of indications, contemporary advancements in the formulation and administration of the agent include the development and US FDA approval of an auto-injectable formulation for the rapid treatment of uncontrolled seizures in 2015-2016 7. Combining diazepam, a proven effective therapy for acute repetitive seizures, with an auto-injector designed for subcutaneous administration that is quickly and easily administered offers the potential for complete, consistent drug absorption and rapid onset of effect 7. This current development is subsequently an important addition to the rescue therapy tool chest for patients with epilepsy 7. In general, diazepam is useful in the symptomatic management of mild to moderate degrees of anxiety in conditions dominated by tension, excitation, agitation, fear, or aggressiveness such as may occur in psychoneurosis, anxiety reactions due to stress conditions, and anxiety states with somatic expression.10 Moreover, in acute alcoholic withdrawal, diazepam may be useful in the symptomatic relief of acute agitation, tremor, and impending acute delirium tremens.10 Furthermore, diazepam is a useful adjunct for the relief of skeletal muscle spasm due to reflex spasm to local pathologies, such as inflammation of the muscle and joints or secondary to trauma; spasticity caused by upper motor neuron disorders, such as cerebral palsy and paraplegia; athetosis and the rare "stiff man syndrome".10 Particular label information from the United Kingdom also lists particular age-specific indications, including for adults: (1) The short-term relief (2-4 weeks) only, of anxiety which is severe, disabling, or subjecting the individual to unacceptable distress, occurring alone or in association with insomnia or short-term psychosomatic, organic or psychotic illness, (2) cerebral palsy, (3) muscle spasm, (4) as an adjunct to certain types of epilepsy (eg. myoclonus), (5) symptomatic treatment of acute alcohol withdrawal, (6) as oral premedication for the nervous dental patient, and (7) for premedication before surgery.6 In the same UK label information, diazepam is indicated in children for: (1) control of tension and irritability in cerebral spasticity in selected cases, (2) as an adjunct to the control of muscle spasm in tetanus, and for (3) oral premedication.6 A diazepam nasal spray is indicated in patients 6 years and older to treat intermittent, stereotypic episodes of frequent seizure activity that are different than the patient's usual seizure pattern.8 Diazepam is a benzodiazepine that exerts anxiolytic, sedative, muscle- relaxant, anticonvulsant and amnestic effects 9,10,6. Most of these effects are thought to result from facilitation of the action of gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA), an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system 9,10,6. Diazepam is a benzodiazepine tranquilliser with anticonvulsant, sedative, muscle relaxant and amnesic properties 9,10,6. Benzodiazepines, such as diazepam, bind to receptors in various regions of the brain and spinal cord. This binding increases the inhibitory effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) 9,10,6. GABAs functions include CNS involvement in sleep induction. Also involved in the control of hypnosis, memory, anxiety, epilepsy and neuronal excitability 9,10,6. After oral administration, it is considered that diazepam is rapidly and completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract as >90% of diazepam is absorbed and the average time to achieve peak plasma concentrations is 1 – 1.5 hours with a range of 0.25 to 2.5 hours 9,10,6. Absorption is delayed and decreased when administered with a moderate fat meal 9. In the presence of food mean lag times are approximately 45 minutes as compared with 15 minutes when fasting 9. There is also an increase in the average time to achieve peak concentrations to about 2.5 hours in the presence of food as compared with 1.25 hours when fasting 9. This results in an average decrease in Cmax of 20% in addition to a 27% decrease in AUC (range 15% to 50%) when administered with food 9. In young healthy males, the volume of distribution at steady-state is 0.8 to 1.0 L/kg 9.  Despite high binding to plasma proteins (98-99%) - mainly albumin and to a lesser extent α1-acid glycoprotein - diazepam is widely distributed into tissues and crosses the blood-brain barrier and is highly lipid soluble, which causes the initial effects to decrease rapidly as it is redistributed into fat deposits and tissues 9,10,6. Diazepam is N-demethylated by CYP3A4 and 2C19 to the active metabolite N-desmethyldiazepam, and is hydroxylated by CYP3A4 to the active metabolite temazepam 9,10. N-desmethyldiazepam and temazepam are both further metabolized to oxazepam 9,10. Temazepam and oxazepam are further largely eliminated by way of conjugation to glucuronic acid via glucuronidation 9,10. Furthermore, oxidation of diazepam is mediated by cytochrome P450 isozymes; formation of desmethyl-diazepam mainly by CYP2C19 and CYP3A and 3-hydroxy-diazepam (temazepam) and oxazepam by CYP3A. Because CYP2C19 is polymorphic, extensive metabolizers (EMs), and poor metabolizers (PMs) of diazepam can be distinguished 9,10. PMs of diazepam showed significantly lower clearance (12 vs 26 mL/min) and longer elimination half-life (88 vs 41 h) of diazepam than EMs after a single oral dose 9,10. Also, PMs had lower clearance, higher AUC and longer elimination half-life of desmethyl-diazepam 9,10. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Diazepam and its metabolites are excreted mainly in the urine, predominantly as their glucuronide conjugates 9,10,6. Diazepam has a biphasic half-life with an initial rapid distribution phase followed by a prolonged terminal elimination phase of 1 or 2 days; its action is further prolonged by the even longer half-life of 2-5 days of its principal active metabolite, desmethyldiazepam (nordiazepam), the relative proportion of which increases in the body on long-term administration 6. The plasma half-life of diazepam is prolonged in neonates, in the elderly, and in patients with kidney or liver disease 6. The clearance of diazepam is 20 to 30 mL/min in young adults 9,10. The symptoms of diazepam overdose are mainly an intensification of the therapeutic effects (ataxia, drowsiness, dysarthria, sedation, muscle weakness, profound sleep, hypotension, bradycardia, nystagmus) or paradoxical excitation 9,10,6. In most cases only observation of vital functions is required 9,10,6. Extreme overdosage may lead to coma, areflexia, cardio-respiratory depression and apnoea, requiring appropriate countermeasures (ventilation, cardiovascular support) 9,10,6. Benzodiazepine respiratory depressant effects are more serious in patients with severe chronic obstructive airways disease 9,10,6. Severe effects in overdose also include rhabdomyolysis and hypothermia 6. Overdose of benzodiazepines in combination with other CNS depressants (including alcohol) may be fatal and should be closely monitored 9. In general, the use of diazepam in women of childbearing potential, and more specifically during known pregnancy, should be considered only when the clinical situation warrants the risk to the fetus 9. The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered 9. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus 9. Patients should also be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physician about the desirability of discontinuing the drug 9. Special care must be taken when diazepam is used during labor and delivery, as high single doses may produce irregularities in the fetal heart rate and hypotonia, poor sucking, hypothermia, and moderate respiratory depression in the neonates 9. With newborn infants it must be remembered that the enzyme system involved in the breakdown of the drug is not yet fully developed (especially in premature infants) 9. Diazepam passes into breast milk 9. Breastfeeding is therefore not recommended in patients receiving diazepam 9. Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established 9. In elderly patients, it is recommended that the dosage be limited to the smallest effective amount to preclude the development of ataxia or oversedation (2 mg to 2.5 mg once or twice daily, initially to be increased gradually as needed and tolerated) 9. Extensive accumulation of diazepam and its major metabolite, desmethyldiazepam, has been noted following chronic administration of diazepam in healthy elderly male subjects. Metabolites of this drug are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function 9. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function 9. Decreases in clearance and protein binding, and increases in volume of distribution and half-life has been reported in patients with cirrhosis 9. In such patients, a 2- to 5- fold increase in mean half-life has been reported 9. Delayed elimination has also been reported for the active metabolite desmethyldiazepam 9. Benzodiazepines are commonly implicated in hepatic encephalopathy 9. Increases in half-life have also been reported in hepatic fibrosis and in both acute and chronic hepatitis 9. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Chase, G.; U.S. Patent 3,102,116; August 27, 1963; assigned to Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. Reeder, E. and Sternbach, L.H.; U.S. Patent 3,109,843; November 5, 1963; assigned to
Hoffmann-La Roche lnc.
Reeder, E. and Sternbach, L.H.; U.S. Patent 3,136,815; June 9, 1964; assigned to Hoffmann-
La Roche Inc.
Reeder, E. and Sternbach, L.H.; US. Patent 3,371,085; February 27, 1968; assigned to
Brompheniramine | DrugBank Online Histamine H1 antagonist used in treatment of allergies, rhinitis, and urticaria. For the treatment of the symptoms of the common cold and allergic rhinitis, such as runny nose, itchy eyes, watery eyes, and sneezing. Brompheniramine is an antihistaminergic medication of the propylamine class. It is a first-generation antihistamine. In allergic reactions an allergen interacts with and cross-links surface IgE antibodies on mast cells and basophils. Once the mast cell-antibody-antigen complex is formed, a complex series of events occurs that eventually leads to cell-degranulation and the release of histamine (and other chemical mediators) from the mast cell or basophil. Once released, histamine can react with local or widespread tissues through histamine receptors. Histamine, acting on H1-receptors, produces pruritis, vasodilatation, hypotension, flushing, headache, tachycardia, and bronchoconstriction. Histamine also increases vascular permeability and potentiates pain. Brompheniramine is a histamine H1 antagonist (or more correctly, an inverse histamine agonist) of the alkylamine class. It provides effective, temporary relief of sneezing, watery and itchy eyes, and runny nose due to hay fever and other upper respiratory allergies. Brompheniramine is an antagonist of the H1 histamine receptors with moderate antimuscarinic actions, as with other common antihistamines such as diphenhydramine. Due to its anticholindergic effects, brompheniramine may cause drowsiness, sedation, dry mouth, dry throat, blurred vision, and increased heart rate. Antihistamines are well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract after oral administration. Hepatic (cytochrome P-450 system), some renal. Oral, rat: LD50 = 318 mg/kg. Signs of overdose include fast or irregular heartbeat, mental or mood changes, tightness in the chest, and unusual tiredness or weakness. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Sperber, N., Papa, D. and Schwenk, E.; US. Patent 2,567,245; September 11, 1951; assigned
to Schering Corporation.
Sperber, N., Papa, D. and Schwenk, E.; U.S. Patent 2,676,964: April 27,1954; assigned to
Dobutamine | DrugBank Online A beta-1 agonist catecholamine that has cardiac stimulant action without evoking vasoconstriction or tachycardia. It is proposed as a cardiotonic after myocardial infarction or open heart surgery. Indicated when parenteral therapy is necessary for inotropic support in the short-term treatment of patients with cardiac decompensation due to depressed contractility resulting either from organic heart disease or from cardiac surgical procedures. Dobutamine is a direct-acting inotropic agent whose primary activity results from stimulation of the beta-adrenoceptors of the heart while producing comparatively mild chronotropic, hypertensive, arrhythmogenic, and vasodilative effects. Dobutamine acts primarily on beta-1 adrenergic receptors, with negligible effects on beta-2 or alpha receptors. It does not cause the release of endogenous norepinephrine, as does dopamine.  Dobutamine directly stimulates beta-1 receptors of the heart to increase myocardial contractility and stroke volume, resulting in increased cardiac output. In human urine, the major excretion products are the conjugates of dobutamine and 3-O-methyl dobutamine. 2 minutes Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. R. R. Tuttle, J. Mills, DE 2317710 (1973).
Flurandrenolide | DrugBank Online A corticosteroid used topically in the treatment of various skin disorders. It is usually employed as a cream or an ointment, and is also used as a polyethylene tape with an adhesive. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p733) For relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses, particularly dry, scaling localized lesions Flurandrenolide is primarily effective because of its anti-inflammatory, antipruritic, and vasoconstrictive actions. Flurandrenolide is a topical corticosteroid. It is normally applied to a plastic tape called Cordran. Cordran is primarily effective because of its anti-inflammatory, antipruritic, and vasoconstrictive actions. Flurandrenolide, which is slowly released from the Cordran tape, binds to the cytosolic glucocorticoid receptor. After binding the receptor the newly formed receptor-ligand complex translocates itself into the cell nucleus, where it binds to many glucocorticoid response elements (GRE) in the promoter region of the target genes. The DNA bound receptor then interacts with basic transcription factors, causing the increase in expression of specific target genes. The anti-inflammatory actions of corticosteroids are thought to involve lipocortins, phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins which, through inhibition arachidonic acid, control the biosynthesis of prostaglandins and leukotrienes. Specifically glucocorticoids induce lipocortin-1 (annexin-1) synthesis, which then binds to cell membranes preventing the phospholipase A2 from coming into contact with its substrate arachidonic acid. This leads to diminished eicosanoid production. Cyclooxygenase (both COX-1 and COX-2) expression is also suppressed, potentiating the effect. In another words, the two main products in inflammation Prostaglandins and Leukotrienes are inhibited by the action of Glucocorticoids. Glucocorticoids also stimulate the lipocortin-1 escaping to the extracellular space, where it binds to the leukocyte membrane receptors and inhibits various inflammatory events: epithelial adhesion, emigration, chemotaxis, phagocytosis, respiratory burst and the release of various inflammatory mediators (lysosomal enzymes, cytokines, tissue plasminogen activator, chemokines etc.) from neutrophils, macrophages and mastocytes. Additionally the immune system is suppressed by corticosteroids due to a decrease in the function of the lymphatic system, a reduction in immunoglobulin and complement concentrations, the precipitation of lymphocytopenia, and interference with antigen-antibody binding. Like other glucocorticoid agents Fluocinolone acetonide acts as a physiological antagonist to insulin by decreasing glycogenesis (formation of glycogen). It also promotes the breakdown of lipids (lipolysis), and proteins, leading to the mobilization of extrahepatic amino acids and ketone bodies. This leads to increased circulating glucose concentrations (in the blood). There is also decreased glycogen formation in the liver. Once absorbed through the skin, topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to those of systemically administered corticosteroids Corticosteroids are bound to plasma proteins in varying degrees.  Primarily hepatic Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin. They are metabolized primarily in the liver and then excreted in the kidneys. Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile. Systemic absorption of topical corticosteroids has produced reversible hypothalamic-pituitary- adrenal (HPA) axis suppression, manifestations of Cushing's syndrome, hyperglycemia, and glucosuria in some patients Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Casas-Campillo, C.; U.S. Patent 3,119,748; January 28, 1964; assigned to Syntex Corporation, Panama.
Cysteamine | DrugBank Online Cystinosis is a rare disease caused by mutations in the CTNS gene that encodes for cystinosin, a protein responsible for transporting cystine out of the cell lysosome. A defect in cystinosin function is followed by cystine accumulation throughout the body, especially the eyes and kidneys.2 Several preparations of cysteamine exist for the treatment of cystinosis manifestations, some in capsule form, and others in ophthalmic solution form.10,12 In particular, cystine deposits on the eye can cause significant discomfort throughout the day and require frequent treatment with eye drops, typically every waking hour.11 On August 25th 2020, the first ophthalmic solution for cystinosis requiring only 4 daily treatments was granted FDA approval.10 Cysteamine eye drops are a practical and effective option for those affected by ocular cystinosis. Marketed by Recordati Rare Diseases Inc., CYSTADROPS® reduce the burden of multiple frequent medications normally administered to those with cystinosis.9 The bitartrate salt of cysteamine is used for the oral treatment of nephropathic cystinosis and cystinuria in children 6 years old and above, and adults.12 The hydrochloride salt, used in eye drop preparations, is indicated for the treatment of corneal cystine crystal accumulation in patients with cystinosis.9,10 Cystine accumulation is the cause of organ damage in cystinosis. Cysteamine prevents the accumulation of cystine crystals in the body and is specifically prescribed to prevent kidney and eye damage.4,9,12 Cysteamine converts cystine into a form that may easily exit cells, preventing harmful accumulation.10 Individuals born without the ability to metabolize cystine suffer from cystinosis, a rare genetic disorder characterized by the widespread accumulation of cystine crystals throughout the body and eye tissues. The cystine crystals may cause considerable damage, particularly in the renal tissues and corneal tissues. In some cases, renal failure can occur during childhood if the condition is left untreated. Other organs that may be affected by cystinosis include the CNS, thyroid, pancreas, muscle tissues, and gonads.2  Cysteamine converts cystine to cysteine and cysteine-cysteamine mixed disulfides, reducing the buildup of corneal cystine crystals.11 This drug participates in a thiol-disulfide interchange reaction with lysosomes, leading to cysteine exit from the lysosome in patients diagnosed with cystinosis.12 Orally administered cysteamine is absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract and reaches its maximum plasma concentration in about 1.4 hours, with some variation according to the type of formulation (delayed versus immediate-release).6,5,12 One pharmacokinetic study of adults with Cystic Fibrosis revealed a Cmax of 2.86 mg/L.6The maximum plasma concentration after administration of cysteamine eye drops is unknown, however, it is likely to be considerably lower than oral administration.10 According to prescribing information, the AUC 0-12 h for the delayed-release oral tablets is 99.26 ± 44.2 μmol*h/L with a Cmax of 27.70 ± 14.99 μmol/L.12  The AUC 0-12 for the immediate-release tablets is 192.00 ± 75.62 μmol*h/L with a Cmax of 37.72 ± 12.10 μmol/L.12 Cysteamine has a volume of distribution of about 129 L, according to one pharmacokinetic study.6 Prescribing information indicates a volume of distribution of 382 L for the delayed-release formulation and 198 L for the immediate-release preparation.12
Chlorphenesin | DrugBank Online Used, along with rest and physical therapy, to treat injuries and other painful muscular conditions. Investigated for use in trigeminal neuralgia (tic douloureux), a neuropathic disorder characterized by severe facial pain. Was investigated as a modulator of histamine release. Chlorphenesin is a muscle relaxant. It blocks nerve impulses (or pain sensations) that are sent to the brain.  The mechanism of action of chlorphenesin is not well defined, and its effects are measured mainly by subjective responses. It is known that chlorphenesin acts in the central nervous system (CNS) rather than directly on skeletal muscle. Rapid and complete. Hepatic. 85% of a dose excreted within 24 hours as the glucuronide metabolite. 2.3-5 hours Symptoms of a chlorphenesin overdose include drowsiness and nausea. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Parker, H.E.; U S . Patent 3,214,336; October 26, 1965; assigned to The Upjohn Company.
Drostanolone | DrugBank Online Drostanolone (also known as dromostanolone) is a potent synthetic androgenic anabolic steroid similar to testosterone. Drostanolone is indicated in postmenopausal women with recurrent breast cancer, in a combined hormone therapy. Ringold, H.J. and Rosenkranz, G.; U.S. Patent 2,908,693; October 13, 1959; assigned to
Syntex SA, Mexico.
Ringold, H.J.and Rosenkranz, G.; U.S.Patent 3,118,915; January 21, 1964; assigned to
Diflunisal | DrugBank Online Diflunisal, a salicylate derivative, is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAIA) with pharmacologic actions similar to other prototypical NSAIAs. Diflunisal possesses anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antipyretic activity. Though its mechanism of action has not been clearly established, most of its actions appear to be associated with inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis via the arachidonic acid pathway. Diflunisal is used to relieve pain accompanied with inflammation and in the symptomatic treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. For symptomatic treatment of mild to moderate pain accompanied by inflammation (e.g. musculoskeletal trauma, post-dental extraction, post-episiotomy), osteoarthritis, and rheumatoid arthritis. Diflunisal is a nonsteroidal drug with analgesic, anti-inflammatory and antipyretic properties. It is a peripherally-acting non-narcotic analgesic drug. Habituation, tolerance and addiction have not been reported. Diflunisal is a difluorophenyl derivative of salicylic acid. Chemically, diflunisal differs from aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) in two respects. The first of these two is the presence of a difluorophenyl substituent at carbon 1. The second difference is the removal of the 0-acetyl group from the carbon 4 position. Diflunisal is not metabolized to salicylic acid, and the fluorine atoms are not displaced from the difluorophenyl ring structure. The precise mechanism of the analgesic and anti-inflammatory actions of diflunisal is not known. Diflunisal is a prostaglandin synthetase inhibitor. In animals, prostaglandins sensitize afferent nerves and potentiate the action of bradykinin in inducing pain. Since prostaglandins are known to be among the mediators of pain and inflammation, the mode of action of diflunisal may be due to a decrease of prostaglandins in peripheral tissues. Rapidly and completely absorbed following oral administration, with a bioavailability of 80-90%. Peak plasma concentrations are achieved 2 - 3 hours following oral administration.  At least 98 to 99% of diflunisal in plasma is bound to proteins. Hepatic, primarily via glucuronide conjugation (90% of administered dose). The drug is excreted in the urine as two soluble glucuronide conjugates accounting for about 90% of the administered dose. Little or no diflunisal is excreted in the feces. 8 to 12 hours Oral LD50 in rat, mouse, and rabbit is 392 mg/kg, 439 mg/kg, and 603 mg/kg, respectively. Symptoms of overdose include drowsiness, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, hyperventilation, tachycardia, sweating, tinnitus, disorientation, stupor, and coma. As a monotherapy, the smallest dosage capable of causing death was reported as 15 grams.
Ranitidine | DrugBank Online Ranitidine is a commonly used drug, classified as a histamine H2-receptor antagonist, and belongs to the same drug class as cimetidine and famotidine. This drug helps to prevent and treat gastric-acid associated conditions, including ulcers, because of its ability to decrease gastric acid secretion.2,11 Ranitidine is often referred to as Zantac, and is available in various forms, including tablet, injection, and effervescent tablet preparations.11,14 The prevalence of GERD is thought to be 10-20% in western countries.4 Ranitidine has proven to be an effective treatment for relieving uncomfortable symptoms of gastric acid associated conditions and is therefore widely used in GERD and other gastric-acid related conditions.5,11 This drug is used alone or with concomitant antacids for the following conditions: short-term treatment of active duodenal ulcer, treating gastric acid hypersecretion due to Zollinger-Ellison syndrome, systemic mastocytosis, and other conditions that may pathologically raise gastric acid levels. It also used in the short term treatment of active benign gastric ulcers and maintenance therapy of gastric ulcers at a reduced dose. In addition to the above, ranitidine can be used for the treatment of GERD symptoms, treatment of erosive esophagitis (endoscopically diagnosed) and the maintenance of gastric or duodenal ulcer healing.11,12 Ranitidine decreases the secretion of gastric acid stimulated by food and drugs. It also reduces the secretion of gastric acid in hypersecretory conditions such as Zollinger-Ellison syndrome.6,11 Marked improvements in the appearance of the esophageal tissues have been observed by endoscopic imaging after ranitidine therapy.5,11 After a meal, the hormone gastrin, produced by cells in the lining of the stomach, stimulates the release of histamine, which then binds to histamine H2 receptors, leading to the secretion of gastric acid. Ranitidine reduces the secretion of gastric acid by reversible binding to histamine (H2) receptors, which are found on gastric parietal cells. This process leads to the inhibition of histamine binding to this receptor, causing the reduction of gastric acid secretion. The relief of gastric-acid related symptoms can occur as soon as 60 minutes after administration of a single dose, and the effects can last from 4-10 hours, providing fast and effective symptomatic relief.3,9,11 Ranitidine is rapidly absorbed with peak concentrations reached within 1-3 hours after administration, and varying greatly among patients. Bioavailability is about 50%-60% due to hepatic metabolism.7,13 In a pharmacokinetic study of healthy males, the AUC 0-infinity was about
Flupentixol | DrugBank Online Flupentixol is an antipsychotic neuroleptic drug. It is a thioxanthene, and therefore closely related to the phenothiazines. Its primary use is as a long acting injection given two or three weekly to people with schizophrenia who have a poor compliance with medication and suffer frequent relapses of illness. It is a D1 and D2 receptor antagonist. It is not approved in the United States. For use in the treatment of schizophrenia and depression Flupenthixol is an anxiolytic, antidepressive agent and a mood stabilizer. It inhibits the central monoamine receptors, particularly the dopamine D1 and D2 receptors. Therefore, it increases the amount of serotonin and noradrenaline that control mood and thinking, and improves mood. Flupenthixol is a thioxanthene antipsychotic. The mechanism of action of Flupenthixol is not completely understood. Flupenthixol is a powerful antagonist of both D1 and D2 dopamine receptors, and an alpha-adrenergic receptor antagonist. It's antipsychotic activity is thought to be related to blocks postsynaptic dopamine receptors in the CNS. Fairly slow and incomplete after oral administration Highly bound to plasma proteins (>95%) Mainly hepatic 19 to 39 hours LD50=300 mk/kg (Oral in mice); LD50=791 mg/kg (Oral in rats); LD50=87 mk/kg (IV in mice); LD50=37 mg/kg (IV in rats) Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Smith Kline & French Laboratories; British Patent 925,538; May 8, 1963.
Clomifene | DrugBank Online A triphenyl ethylene stilbene derivative which is an estrogen agonist or antagonist depending on the target tissue. Used mainly in female infertility due to anovulation (e.g. due to polycystic ovary syndrome) to induce ovulation.  Clomifene (previously clomiphene) is an orally administered, non steroidal, ovulatory stimulant that acts as a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM). Clomifene can lead to multiple ovulation, and hence increase the risk of conceiving twins. In comparison to purified FSH, the rate of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome is low. There may be an increased risk of ovarian cancer and weight gain. Clomifene is capable of interacting with estrogen-receptor-containing tissues, including the hypothalamus, pituitary, ovary, endometrium, vagina, and cervix. It may compete with estrogen for estrogen-receptor-binding sites and may delay replenishment of intracellular estrogen receptors. Clomifene initiates a series of endocrine events culminating in a preovulatory gonadotropin surge and subsequent follicular rupture. The first endocrine event, in response to a course of clomifene therapy, is an increase in the release of pituitary gonadotropins. This initiates steroidogenesis and folliculogenesis resulting in growth of the ovarian follicle and an increase in the circulating level of estradiol. Following ovulation, plasma progesterone and estradiol rise and fall as they would in a normal ovulatory cycle. Clomifene has both estrogenic and anti-estrogenic properties, but its precise mechanism of action has not been determined. Clomifene appears to stumulate the release of gonadotropins, follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH), and leuteinizing hormone (LH), which leads to the development and maturation of ovarian follicle, ovulation, and subsequent development and function of the coprus luteum, thus resulting in pregnancy. Gonadotropin release may result from direct stimulation of the hypothalamic-pituitary axis or from a decreased inhibitory influence of estrogens on the hypothalamic-pituitary axis by competing with the endogenous estrogens of the uterus, pituitary, or hypothalamus. Clomifene has no apparent progestational, androgenic, or antrandrogenic effects and does not appear to interfere with pituitary-adrenal or pituitary-thyroid function. Based on early studies with 14 C-labeled clomifene, the drug was shown to be readily absorbed orally in humans. Hepatic Based on early studies with 14C-labeled clomiphene citrate, the drug was shown to be readily absorbed orally in humans and excreted principally in the feces.
Bumetanide | DrugBank Online Bumetanide is a sulfamyl diuretic. For the treatment of edema associated with congestive heart failure, hepatic and renal disease including the nephrotic syndrome. Bumetanide is a loop diuretic of the sulfamyl category to treat heart failure. It is often used in patients in whom high doses of furosemide are ineffective. There is however no reason not to use bumetanide as a first choice drug. The main difference between the two substances is in bioavailability. Bumetanide has more predictable pharmacokinetic properties as well as clinical effect. In patients with normal renal function, bumetanide is 40 times more effective than furosemide. Bumetanide interferes with renal cAMP and/or inhibits the sodium-potassium ATPase pump. Bumetanide appears to block the active reabsorption of chloride and possibly sodium in the ascending loop of Henle, altering electrolyte transfer in the proximal tubule. This results in excretion of sodium, chloride, and water and, hence, diuresis. Bumetanide is completely absorbed (80%), and the absorption is not altered when taken with food. Bioavailability is almost complete. 97% 45% is secreted unchanged. Urinary and biliary metabolites are formed by oxidation of the N-butyl side chain. Oral administration of carbon-14 labeled Bumex to human volunteers revealed that 81% of the administered radioactivity was excreted in the urine, 45% of it as unchanged drug. Biliary excretion of Bumex amounted to only 2% of the administered dose. 60-90 minutes Overdosage can lead to acute profound water loss, volume and electrolyte depletion, dehydration, reduction of blood volume and circulatory collapse with a possibility of vascular thrombosis and embolism. Electrolyte depletion may be manifested by weakness, dizziness, mental confusion, anorexia, lethargy, vomiting and cramps. Treatment consists of replacement of fluid and electrolyte losses by careful monitoring of the urine and electrolyte output and serum electrolyte levels. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Felt, P.W.; US. Patent 3,634,583; January 11, 1972; assigned to Lovens Kemiske Fabrik
Dienestrol | DrugBank Online Dienestrol is a synthetic, non-steroidal estrogen. It is an estrogen receptor agonist. Estrogens work partly by increasing a normal clear discharge from the vagina and making the vulva and urethra healthy. Using or applying an estrogen relieves or lessens: dryness and soreness in the vagina, itching, redness, or soreness of the vulva. Conditions that are treated with vaginal estrogens include a genital skin condition (vulvar atrophy), inflammation of the vagina (atrophic vaginitis), and inflammation of the urethra (atrophic urethritis). For use in the treatment of atrophic vaginitis and kraurosis vulvae. Estrogens diffuse into their target cells and interact with a protein receptor. Target cells include the female reproductive tract, the mammary gland, the hypothalamus, and the pituitary. Estrogens increase the hepatic synthesis of sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), thyroid-binding globulin (TBG), and other serum proteins and suppress follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) from the anterior pituitary. The combination of an estrogen with a progestin suppresses the hypothalamic-pituitary system, decreasing the secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). Dienestrol is a synthetic, non-steroidal estrogen. Estrogens passively diffuse into target cells of responsive tissues, complex with the estrogen receptors, and enter the cell's nucleus to initiate or enhance gene transcription of protein synthesis after binding to DNA. Systemic absorption and mode of action of dienestrol are undetermined.Estrogens diffuse into their target cells and interact with a protein receptor. Target cells include the female reproductive tract, the mammary gland, the hypothalamus, and the pituitary. Estrogens increase the hepatic synthesis of sex hormone binding globulin (SHBG), thyroid-binding globulin (TBG), and other serum proteins and suppress follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) from the anterior pituitary. The combination of an estrogen with a progestin suppresses the hypothalamic-pituitary system, decreasing the secretion of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH). 50 to 80% Hepatic. Symptoms of overdose include nausea and vomiting, and withdrawal bleeding may occur in females. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Short, W.F. and Hobday, G.1; U.S. Patent 2,464,203; March 15,1949; assigned to Boots Pure Drug Company Limited, England.
Ethanol | DrugBank Online A clear, colorless liquid rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and distributed throughout the body. It has bactericidal activity and is used often as a topical disinfectant. It is widely used as a solvent and preservative in pharmaceutical preparations as well as serving as the primary ingredient in alcoholic beverages. For therapeutic neurolysis of nerves or ganglia for the relief of intractable chronic pain in such conditions as inoperable cancer and trigeminal neuralgia (tic douloureux), in patients for whom neurosurgical procedures are contraindicated. Alcohol produces injury to cells by dehydration and precipitation of the cytoplasm or protoplasm. This accounts for its bacteriocidal and antifungal action. When alcohol is injected in close proximity to nerve tissues, it produces neuritis and nerve degeneration (neurolysis). Ninety to 98% of ethanol that enters the body is completely oxidized. Ethanol is also used as a cosolvent to dissolve many insoluble drugs and to serve as a mild sedative in some medicinal formulations. Ethanol also binds to GABA, glycine, NMDA receptors and modulates their effects. Ethanol is also metabolised by the hepatic enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase. Ethanol affects the brain’s neurons in several ways. It alters their membranes as well as their ion channels, enzymes, and receptors. Alcohol also binds directly to the receptors for acetylcholine, serotonin, GABA, and the NMDA receptors for glutamate.
Etacrynic acid | DrugBank Online A compound that inhibits symport of sodium, potassium, and chloride primarily in the ascending limb of Henle, but also in the proximal and distal tubules. This pharmacological action results in excretion of these ions, increased urinary output, and reduction in extracellular fluid. This compound has been classified as a loop or high ceiling diuretic. For the treatment of high blood pressure and edema caused by diseases like congestive heart failure, liver failure, and kidney failure. Ethacrynic acid is a monosulfonamyl loop or high ceiling diuretic. Ethacrynic acid acts on the ascending limb of the loop of Henle and on the proximal and distal tubules. Urinary output is usually dose dependent and related to the magnitude of fluid accumulation. Water and electrolyte excretion may be increased several times over that observed with thiazide diuretics, since ethacrynic acid inhibits reabsorption of a much greater proportion of filtered sodium than most other diuretic agents. Therefore, ethacrynic acid is effective in many patients who have significant degrees of renal insufficiency. Ethacrynic acid has little or no effect on glomerular filtration or on renal blood flow, except following pronounced reductions in plasma volume when associated with rapid diuresis. Ethacrynic acid inhibits symport of sodium, potassium, and chloride primarily in the ascending limb of Henle, but also in the proximal and distal tubules. This pharmacological action results in excretion of these ions, increased urinary output, and reduction in extracellular fluid. Diuretics also lower blood pressure initially by reducing plasma and extracellular fluid volume; cardiac output also decreases, explaining its antihypertensive action. Eventually, cardiac output returns to normal with an accompanying decrease in peripheral resistance. Its mode of action does not involve carbonic anhydrase inhibition. Onset of action is rapid, usually within 30 minutes after an oral dose of ethacrynic acid or within 5 minutes after an intravenous injection of ethacrynic acid. > 98% Hepatic. Overdosage may lead to excessive diuresis with electrolyte depletion. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Schultz, E.M. and Sprague, J.M.; U.S. Patent 3,255,241; June 7, 1966; assigned to Merck
Ondansetron | DrugBank Online A competitive serotonin type 3 receptor antagonist. It is effective in the treatment of nausea and vomiting caused by cytotoxic chemotherapy drugs, including cisplatin, and has reported anxiolytic and neuroleptic properties. [PubChem] Having been developed in the 1980s by GlaxoSmithKline and approved by the US FDA since January 1991, ondansetron has demonstrated a long history of use and efficacy. Commonly formulated as oral tablets, orally disintegrating tablets (ODT), and injections, and available as generic products as well, ondansetron continues to see contemporary innovations in its formulation and use, including the development of orally soluble films that are both discreet in administration and less of a burden in comparison to having patients attempt to swallow pills during emesis 7. In the adult patient population:
i) orally administered ondansetron tablets and orally disintegrating tablets (ODT) are indicated for:
- the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including high dose (ie. greater than or equal to 50 mg/m2) cisplatin therapy, and radiotherapy, and
- the prevention and treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting ii) intravenously administered ondansetron injection formulations are indicated for:
- the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with emetogenic cancer chemotherapy, including high dose (ie. greater than or equal to 50 mg/m2) cisplatin therapy, and
- the prevention and treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting In the pediatric (4-18 years of age) patient population:
i) ondansetron was effective and well tolerated when given to children 4-12 years of age for the treatment of post-chemotherapy induced nausea and vomiting,
ii) ondansetron tablets, ondansetron ODT, ondansetron injection are not indicated for the treatment of children 3 years of age or younger,
iii) ondansetron tablets, ondansetron ODT, ondansetron injection are not indicated for use in any age group of the pediatric population for the treatment of post-radiotherapy induced nausea and vomiting, and
iV) ondansetron tablets, ondansetron ODT, ondansetron injection are not indicated for use in any age group of the pediatric population for the treatment of postoperative nausea and vomiting In the geriatric (>65 years of age) patient population:
i) efficacy and tolerance of ondansetron were similar to that observed in younger adults for the treatment of post-chemotherapy and radiotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting, and
Bimatoprost | DrugBank Online Bimatoprost, also known as Latisse or Lumigan, belongs to a group of drugs called prostamides, which are synthetic structural analogs of prostaglandin. Bimatoprost, marketed by Allergan, is administered in both the ophthalmic solution and implant form. It has the ability to reduce ocular hypotension, proving effective in conditions such as ocular hypertension and glaucoma.13,14,15,20 Bimatoprost is also used to treat eyelash hypotrichosis, or sparse eyelash growth.16 It was initially approved by the FDA in 2001 for ocular hypertension and later approved for hypothrichosis in 2008, as eyelash growth became a desirable adverse effect for patients using this drug.17 Bimatoprost is used for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
Tinidazole | DrugBank Online A nitroimidazole antitrichomonal agent effective against Trichomonas vaginalis, Entamoeba histolytica, and Giardia lamblia infections. For the treatment of trichomoniasis caused by T. vaginalis in both female and male patients. Also for the treatment of giardiasis caused by G. duodenalis in both adults and pediatric patients older than three years of age and for the treatment of intestinal amebiasis and amebic liver abscess caused by E. histolytica in both adults and pediatric patients older than three years of age. Tinidazole is a synthetic antiprotozoal agent. Tinidazole demonstrates activity both in vitro and in clinical infections against the following protozoa: Trichomonas vaginalis, Giardia duodenalis (also termed G. lamblia), and Entamoeba histolytica. Tinidazole does not appear to have activity against most strains of vaginal lactobacilli. Tinidazole is a prodrug and antiprotozoal agent. The nitro group of tinidazole is reduced in Trichomonas by a ferredoxin-mediated electron transport system. The free nitro radical generated as a result of this reduction is believed to be responsible for the antiprotozoal activity. It is suggested that the toxic free radicals covalently bind to DNA, causing DNA damage and leading to cell death. The mechanism by which tinidazole exhibits activity against Giardia and Entamoeba species is not known, though it is probably similar. Rapidly and completely absorbed under fasting conditions. Administration with food results in a delay in Tmax of approximately 2 hours and a decline in Cmax of approximately 10% and an AUC of 901.6 ± 126.5 mcg hr/mL. Plasma protein binding of tinidazole is 12%. Hepatic, mainly via CYP3A4. Tinidazole, like metronidazole, is significantly metabolized in humans prior to excretion. Tinidazole is partly metabolized by oxidation, hydroxylation and conjugation. Tinidazole is the major drug-related constituent in plasma after human treatment, along with a small amount of the 2-hydroxymethyl metabolite. Tinidazole crosses the placental barrier and is secreted in breast milk. Tinidazole is excreted by the liver and the kidneys.
Tinidazole is excreted in the urine mainly as unchanged drug (approximately 20-25% of the administered dose).
Metronidazole | DrugBank Online Metronidazole is a commonly used antibiotic, belonging to the nitroimidazole class of antibiotics.14 It is frequently used to treat gastrointestinal infections as well as trichomoniasis and giardiasis, and amebiasis which are parasitic infections.4 Metronidazole has been used as an antibiotic for several decades15, with added antiparasitic properties that set it apart from many other antibacterial drugs, allowing it to treat a wide variety of infections. It is available in capsule form, tablet form, and topical form, and suppository preparations for the treatment of various infections. Metronidazole is indicated for the treatment of confirmed trichomoniasis caused by Trichomonas vaginalis (except for in the first trimester of pregnancy) and the patient's sexual partners, bacterial vaginosis16, certain types of amebiasis, and various anaerobic infections.11 The above anaerobic infections may occur on the skin and skin structures, the abdomen, the heart, reproductive organs, central nervous system, and the respiratory system. Some may also be present in the bloodstream in cases of septicemia. Common infections treated by metronidazole are Bacteroides species infections, Clostridium infections, and Fusobacterium infections, as well as Peptococcus and Peptostreptococcus infections.14  It is also used off-label in the treatment of Crohn's disease and rosacea, as a prophylactic agent after surgery5, and in the treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection.7 It has also been studied in the prevention of preterm births and to treat periodontal disease.1,12 Metronidazole treats amebiasis, trichomoniasis, and giardiasis, exerting both antibacterial and antiprotozoal activities.16 Metronidazole is an effective treatment for some anaerobic bacterial infections.11 Metronidazole has shown antibacterial activity against the majority of obligate anaerobes, however, during in vitro studies, it does not demonstrate significant action against facultative anaerobes or obligate aerobes.14 The nitro group reduction of metronidazole by anaerobic organisms is likely responsible for the drug's antimicrobial cytotoxic effects, causing DNA strand damage to microbes.5,7 A note on convulsions and neuropathy and carcinogenesis It is important to be aware of the risk of peripheral neuropathy and convulsions associated with metronidazole, especially at higher doses. If convulsions or numbness of an extremity occur, discontinue the drug immediately.14 Metronidazole has been found to be carcinogenic in mice and rats. The relevance to this effect in humans is unknown. It is advisable to only administer metronidazole when clinically necessary and only for its approved indications.17 The exact mechanism of action of metronidazole has not been fully established, however, it is possible that an intermediate in the reduction of metronidazole which is only made by anaerobic bacteria and protozoa, binds deoxyribonucleic acid and electron-transport proteins of organisms, blocking nucleic acid synthesis.14
After administration, metronidazole enters cells by passive diffusion. Following this, ferredoxin or flavodoxin reduce its nitro group to nitro radicals.
The redox potential of the electron transport portions of anaerobic or microaerophilic microorganisms renders metronidazole selective to these organisms, which cause nitro group reduction, leading to the production of toxic metabolites. These include N-(2-hydroxyethyl) oxamic acid and acetamide, which may damage DNA of replicating organisms.5 After the intravenous infusion of a 1.5g dose, peak concentration was reached within 1 hour and was peak level of 30-40 mg/L.16 When a multiple-dose regimen of 500mg three times a day administered intravenously, steady-state concentrations were achieved within about 3 days and peak concentration was measured at 26 mg/L.16
Buprenorphine | DrugBank Online Buprenorphine is a weak partial mu-opioid receptor agonist and a weak kappa-opioid receptor antagonist used for the treatment of severe pain.12,15 It is also commonly used as an alternative to methadone for the treatment of severe opioid addiction.19,20 Buprenorphine is commercially available as the brand name product Suboxone which is formulated in a 4:1 fixed-dose combination product along with naloxone, a non-selective competitive opioid receptor antagonist. Combination with naloxone is intended to reduce the abuse potential of Suboxone, as naloxone is poorly absorbed by the oral route (and has no effect when taken orally), but would reverse the opioid agonist effects of buprenorphine if injected intravenously.14,19,20 Buprenorphine has poor gastrointestinal absorption and is therefore formulated as a sublingual tablet. Buprenorphine has a number of unique pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic properties that make it a preferred agent for the treatment of conditions requiring high doses of strong opioids.13 For example, buprenorphine dissociates from opioid receptors very slowly, resulting in a long duration of action and relief from pain or withdrawal symptoms for upwards of 24-36 hours. Use of once-daily buprenorphine may benefit individuals who have developed tolerance to other potent opioids and who require larger and more frequent doses. Buprenorphine may also be a preferred agent over methadone (which is also commonly used to treat severe pain and opioid use disorder), as it has less effect on Qtc interval prolongation,9,10 fewer drug interactions, reduced risk of sexual side effects,17 and an improved safety profile with a lower risk of overdose and respiratory depression.6,7,8 Buprenorphine acts as a partial mu-opioid receptor agonist with a high affinity for the receptor, but lower intrinsic activity compared to other full mu-opioid agonists such as heroin, oxycodone, or methadone.15 This means that buprenorphine preferentially binds the opioid receptor and displaces lower affinity opioids without activating the receptor to a comparable degree. Clinically, this results in a slow onset of action and a clinical phenomenon known as the "ceiling effect" where once a certain dose is reached, buprenorphine's effects plateau. This effect can be beneficial, however, as dose-related side effects such as respiratory depression, sedation, and intoxication also plateau at around 32mg, resulting in a lower risk of overdose compared to methadone and other full agonist opioids.4,5 It also means that opioid-dependent patients do not experience sedation or euphoria at the same rate that they might experience with more potent opioids, improving quality of life for patients with severe pain and reducing the reinforcing effects of opioids which can lead to drug-seeking behaviours.11 Treatment of opioid addiction with buprenorphine, methadone, or slow-release oral morphine (SROM) is termed Opioid Agonist Treatment (OAT) or Opioid Substitution Therapy (OST). The intention of substitution of illicit opioids with the long-acting opioids used in OAT is to prevent withdrawal symptomns for 24-36 hours following dosing to ultimately reduce cravings and drug-seeking behaviours. Use of OAT is also intended to improved social stabilization including a reduction in crime rates, marginalization, incarceration, and use of illicit substances such as heroin or fentanyl. Illegally purchased opioids can often be injected and may be laced with other substances that increase the risk of harm or overdose. Provision of OAT is often combined with education about harm reduction including use of clean needles and injection supplies in an effort to reduce the risks associated with injection drug use which includes contraction of HIV and Hepatitis C and other complications including skin infections, abscesses, or endocarditis.16 Buprenorphine is indicated for the management of pain severe enough to require an opioid analgesic and for which alternative treatments are inadequate. Buprenorphine is also used in combination with naloxone in a fixed-dose combination product for the treatment of moderate to severe opioid use disorder.19,20 Buprenorphine interacts predominately with the opioid mu-receptor. These mu-binding sites are discretely distributed in the human brain, spinal cord, and other tissues. In clinical settings, buprenorphine exerts its principal pharmacologic effects on the central nervous system. Its primary actions of therapeutic value are analgesia and sedation. In addition to analgesia, alterations in mood, euphoria and dysphoria, and drowsiness commonly occur. Buprenorphine depresses the respiratory centers, depresses the cough reflex, and constricts the pupils.  Dependence Buprenorphine is a partial agonist at the mu-opioid receptor and chronic administration produces physical dependence of the opioid type, characterized by withdrawal signs and symptoms upon abrupt discontinuation or rapid taper. The withdrawal syndrome is typically milder than seen with full agonists and may be delayed in onset. Buprenorphine can be abused in a manner similar to other opioids. This should be considered when prescribing or dispensing buprenorphine in situations when the clinician is concerned about an increased risk of misuse, abuse, or diversion.20 Withdrawal Abrupt discontinuation of treatment is not recommended as it may result in an opioid withdrawal syndrome that may be delayed in onset. Signs and symptoms may include body aches, diarrhea, gooseflesh, loss of appetite, nausea, nervousness or restlessness, anxiety, runny nose, sneezing, tremors or shivering, stomach cramps, tachycardia, trouble with sleeping, unusual increase in sweating, palpitations, unexplained fever, weakness and yawning.20 Risk of Respiratory and Central Nervous System (CNS) Depression and Overdose Buprenorphine has been associated with life-threatening respiratory depression and death. Many, but not all, post-marketing reports regarding coma and death involved misuse by self-injection or were associated with the concomitant use of buprenorphine and benzodiazepines or other CNS depressant, including alcohol. Use buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets with caution in patients with compromised respiratory function (e.g., chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, cor pulmonale, decreased respiratory reserve, hypoxia, hypercapnia, or pre-existing respiratory depression).19,20 Risk of Overdose in Opioid Naïve Patients There have been reported deaths of opioid-naïve individuals who received a 2 mg dose of buprenorphine as a sublingual tablet for analgesia. Buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets are not appropriate as an analgesic in opioid-naïve patients.19,20 Precipitation of Opioid Withdrawal Signs and Symptoms If buprenorphine is started in opioid-dependent individuals, it will displace the other opioids and cause a phenomenon known as "precipitated withdrawal" which is characterized by a rapid and intense onset of withdrawal symptoms. Individuals must therefore be in a state of mild to moderate withdrawal before starting therapy with buprenorphine.  Because it contains naloxone, buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets are also highly likely to produce marked and intense withdrawal signs and symptoms if misused parenterally by individuals dependent on full opioid agonists such as heroin, morphine, or methadone.19,20 Gastrointestinal Effects Buprenorphine and other morphine-like opioids have been shown to decrease bowel motility and cause constipation. Buprenorphine may obscure the diagnosis or clinical course of patients with acute abdominal conditions and should be administered with caution to patients with dysfunction of the biliary tract.19,20 Effects on the Endocrine System Opioids inhibit the secretion of adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH), cortisol, and luteinizing hormone (LH) in humans. They also stimulate prolactin, growth hormone (GH) secretion, and pancreatic secretion of insulin and glucagon. Chronic use of opioids may influence the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, leading to androgen deficiency that may manifest as low libido, impotence, erectile dysfunction, amenorrhea, or infertility. The causal role of opioids in the clinical syndrome of hypogonadism is unknown because the various medical, physical, lifestyle, and psychological stressors that may influence gonadal hormone levels have not been adequately controlled for in studies conducted to date. Patients presenting with symptoms of androgen deficiency should undergo laboratory evaluation.19,20 Adrenal Insufficiency Cases of adrenal insufficiency have been reported with opioid use, more often following greater than one month of use. Presentation of adrenal insufficiency may include non-specific symptoms and signs including nausea, vomiting, anorexia, fatigue, weakness, dizziness, and low blood pressure. If adrenal insufficiency is suspected, confirm the diagnosis with diagnostic testing as soon as possible. If adrenal insufficiency is diagnosed, treat with physiologic replacement doses of corticosteroids. Wean the patient off of the opioid to allow adrenal function to recover and continue corticosteroid treatment until adrenal function recovers. Other opioids may be tried as some cases reported use of a different opioid without recurrence of adrenal insufficiency. The information available does not identify any particular opioids as being more likely to be associated with adrenal insufficiency.19,20 Use in Patients With Impaired Hepatic Function Buprenorphine/naloxone products are not recommended in patients with severe hepatic impairment and may not be appropriate for patients with moderate hepatic impairment. The doses of buprenorphine and naloxone in this fixed-dose combination product cannot be individually titrated, and hepatic impairment results in a reduced clearance of naloxone to a much greater extent than buprenorphine. Therefore, patients with severe hepatic impairment will be exposed to substantially higher levels of naloxone than patients with normal hepatic function. This may result in an increased risk of precipitated withdrawal at the beginning of treatment (induction) and may interfere with buprenorphine’s efficacy throughout treatment. In patients with moderate hepatic impairment, the differential reduction of naloxone clearance compared to buprenorphine clearance is not as great as in subjects with severe hepatic impairment. However, buprenorphine/naloxone products are not recommended for initiation of (treatment induction) in patients with moderate hepatic impairment due to the increased risk of precipitated withdrawal. Buprenorphine/naloxone products may be used with caution for maintenance treatment in patients with moderate hepatic impairment who have initiated treatment on a buprenorphine product without naloxone. However, patients should be carefully monitored and consideration given to the possibility of naloxone interfering with buprenorphine’s efficacy.19,20 Risk of Hepatitis, Hepatic Events Cases of cytolytic hepatitis and hepatitis with jaundice have been observed in individuals receiving buprenorphine in clinical trials and through post-marketing adverse event reports. The spectrum of abnormalities ranges from transient asymptomatic elevations in hepatic transaminases to case reports of death, hepatic failure, hepatic necrosis, hepatorenal syndrome, and hepatic encephalopathy. In many cases, the presence of pre-existing liver enzyme abnormalities, infection with hepatitis B or hepatitis C virus, concomitant usage of other potentially hepatotoxic drugs, and ongoing injecting drug use may have played a causative or contributory role. In other cases, insufficient data were available to determine the etiology of the abnormality. Withdrawal of buprenorphine has resulted in amelioration of acute hepatitis in some cases; however, in other cases no dose reduction was necessary. The possibility exists that buprenorphine had a causative or contributory role in the development of the hepatic abnormality in some cases. Liver function tests, prior to initiation of treatment is recommended to establish a baseline. Periodic monitoring of liver function during treatment is also recommended. A biological and etiological evaluation is recommended when a hepatic event is suspected. Depending on the case, buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets may need to be carefully discontinued to prevent withdrawal signs and symptoms and a return by the patient to illicit drug use, and strict monitoring of the patient should be initiated.19,20 Orthostatic Hypotension Like other opioids, buprenorphine and naloxone sublingual tablets may produce orthostatic hypotension in ambulatory patients. Elevation of Cerebrospinal Fluid Pressure Buprenorphine, like other opioids, may elevate cerebrospinal fluid pressure and should be used with caution in patients with head injury, intracranial lesions, and other circumstances when cerebrospinal pressure may be increased. Buprenorphine can produce miosis and changes in the level of consciousness that may interfere with patient evaluation. Elevation of Intracholedochal Pressure Buprenorphine has been shown to increase intracholedochal pressure, as do other opioids, and thus should be administered with caution to patients with dysfunction of the biliary tract. Buprenorphine is a partial agonist at the mu-opioid receptor and an antagonist at the kappa-opioid receptor. It demonstrates a high affinity for the mu-opioid receptor but has lower intrinsic activity compared to other full mu-opioid agonists such as heroin, oxycodone, or methadone.15 This means that buprenorphine preferentially binds the opioid receptor and displaces lower affinity opioids without activating the receptor to a comparable degree. Clinically, this results in a slow onset of action and a clinical phenomenon known as the "ceiling effect" where once a certain dose is reached buprenorphine's effects plateau. This effect can be beneficial, however, as dose-related side effects such as respiratory depression, sedation, and intoxication also plateau at around 32mg, resulting in a lower risk of overdose compared to methadone and other full agonist opioids.4,5 It also means that opioid-dependent patients do not experience sedation or euphoria at the same rate that they might experience with more potent opioids, improving quality of life for patients with severe pain and reducing the reinforcing effects of opioids which can lead to drug-seeking behaviours.11 Buprenorphine's high affinity, but low intrinsic activity for the mu-opioid receptor also means that if it is started in opioid-dependent individuals, it will displace the other opioids without creating an equal opioid effect and cause a phenomenon known as "precipitated withdrawal" which is characterized by a rapid and intense onset of withdrawal symptoms (i.e. anxiety, restlessness, gastrointestinal distress, diaphoresis, intense drug cravings, and tachycardia). Individuals must therefore be in a state of mild to moderate withdrawal before starting therapy with buprenorphine.  Buprenorphine is commercially available as the brand name product Suboxone which is formulated in a 4:1 fixed-dose combination product along with naloxone, a non-selective competitive opioid receptor antagonist. Combination of an opioid agonist with an opioid antagonist may seem counterintuitive, however this combination with naloxone is intended to reduce the abuse potential of Suboxone, as naloxone is poorly absorbed by the oral route (and has no effect when taken orally), but would reverse the opioid agonist effects of buprenorphine if injected intravenously.14,19,20  Bioavailablity of buprenorphine/naloxone is very high following intravenous or subcutaneous administration, lower by the sublingual or buccal route, and very low when administered by the oral route. It is therefore provided as a sublingual tablet that is absorbed from the oral mucosa directly into systemic circulation.18  Clinical pharmacokinetic studies found that there was wide inter-patient variability in the sublingual absorption of buprenorphine and naloxone, but within subjects the variability was low. Both Cmax and AUC of buprenorphine increased in a linear fashion with the increase in dose (in the range of 4 to 16 mg), although the increase was not directly dose-proportional. Buprenorphine combination with naloxone (2mg/0.5mg) provided in sublingual tablets demonstrated a Cmax of 0.780 ng/mL with a Tmax of 1.50 hr and AUC of 7.651 ng.hr/mL.19,20 Coadministration with naloxone does not effect the pharmacokinetics of buprenorphine. Buprenorphine is highly lipophilic, and therefore extensively distributed, with rapid penetration through the blood-brain barrier. The estimated volume of distribution is 188 - 335 L when given intravenously. It is able to cross into the placenta and breast milk.  Buprenorphine is approximately 96% protein-bound, primarily to alpha- and beta-globulin.19,20 Buprenorphine is metabolized to norbuprenorphine via Cytochrome P450 3A4/3A5-mediated N-dealkylation. Buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine both also undergo glucuronidation to the inactive metabolites buprenorphine-3-glucuronide and norbuprenorphine-3-glucuronide, respectively.18,19,20 While norbuprenorphine has been found to bind to opioid receptors in-vitro, brain concentrations are very low which suggests that it does not contribute to the clinical effects of buprenorphine.18 Naloxone undergoes direct glucuronidation to naloxone-3-glucuronide as well as N-dealkylation, and reduction of the 6-oxo group.19,20 Hover over products below to view reaction partners Buprenorphine, like morphine and other phenolic opioid analgesics, is metabolized by the liver and its clearance is related to hepatic blood flow. It is primarily eliminated via feces (as free forms of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine) while 10 - 30% of the dose is excreted in urine (as conjugated forms of buprenorphine and norbuprenorphine).19,20 The overall mean elimination half-life of buprenorphine in plasma ranges from 31 to 42 hours, although the levels are very low 10 hours after dosing (majority of AUC of buprenorphine is captured within 10 hours), indicating that the effective half-life may be shorter.19,20 Buprenorphine demonstrates slow dissociation kinetics (~166 min), which contributes to its long duration of action and allows for once-daily or even every-second-day dosing.18 In clinical trial studies, the half-life of sublingually administered buprenorphine/naloxone 2mg/0.5mg was found to be 30.75 hours.19,20 Clearance may be higher in children than in adults.
Plasma clearance rate, IV administration, anaesthetized patients = 901.2 ± 39.7 mL/min;
Etretinate | DrugBank Online Etretinate is a medication used to treat severe psoriasis. It is a synthetic aromatic retinoid. The mechanism of action of etretinate is still incompletely understood although, like retinoic acid, it is thought to interfere with the terminal differentiation of keratinocytes. It is thought to bind to the retinoic acid receptors. Etretinate is also believed to enhance the binding of cAMP to the regulatory RI subunit of cAMP dependent protein kinases. Etretinate was taken off the market in Canada in 1996 and America in 1998 due to the risk of birth defects. Etretinate is now used to treat T-cell lymphomas. It also appears to inhibit NADH oxidase activity. For the treatment of severe psoriasis in adults. The active metabolite responsible for etretinate's effects, acitretin, is a retinoid. Retinoids have a structure similar to vitamin A and are involved in the normal growth of skin cells. Acitretin works by inhibiting the excessive cell growth and keratinisation (process by which skin cells become thickened due to the deposition of a protein within them) seen in psoriasis. It therefore reduces the thickening of the skin, plaque formation and scaling. The mechanism of action of the active metabolite, acitretin, is unknown, however it is believed to work by targeting specific receptors (retinoid receptors) in the skin which help normalize the growth cycle of skin cells. Absorbed in the small intestine. Studies in normal volunteers indicate that the absorption of etretinate is greater in patients consuming whole milk or a high-fat diet than in patients in a fasting state. More than 99% bound to plasma proteins, predominantly lipoproteins, whereas its active metabolite, acetretin (etretin), is predominantly bound to albumin. Extensively metabolized, with significant first-pass metabolism to the pharmacologically active acid form. Subsequent metabolism results in the inactive 13-cis acid form, chain-shortened breakdown products, and conjugates that are ultimately excreted. In one study, the apparent terminal half-life of etretinate after 6 months of therapy was approximately 120 days. In another study of 47 patients who had undergone chronic therapy with etretinate, 5 patients had detectable serum drug concentrations (0.5 to 12 ng/mL) 2.1 to 2.9 years after therapy was completed. Symptoms of overdose include headache and vertigo. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Bollag. W., Ruegg, R. and Ryser, G.; U.S.Patent 4,105,681; August 8,1978; assigned to Hoffmann-LaRoche, Inc.
Azacitidine | DrugBank Online A pyrimidine nucleoside analogue that inhibits DNA methyltransferase, impairing DNA methylation. It is also an antimetabolite of cytidine, incorporated primarily into RNA. Azacytidine has been used as an antineoplastic agent. For treatment of patients with the following French-American-British myelodysplastic syndrome subtypes: refractory anemia or refractory anemia with ringed sideroblasts (if accompanied by neutropenia or thrombocytopenia or requiring transfusions), refractory anemia with excess blasts, refractory anemia with excess blasts in transformation (now classified as acute myelogenous leukemia with multilineage dysplasia), and chronic myelomonocytic leukemia. Azacitidine is believed to exert its antineoplastic effects by causing hypomethylation of DNA and direct cytotoxicity on abnormal hematopoietic cells in the bone marrow. The concentration of azacitidine required for maximum inhibition of DNA methylation in vitro does not cause major suppression of DNA synthesis. Hypomethylation may restore normal function to genes that are critical for differentiation and proliferation. The cytotoxic effects of azacitidine cause the death of rapidly dividing cells, including cancer cells that are no longer responsive to normal growth control mechanisms. Non-proliferating cells are relatively insensitive to azacitidine. Upon uptake into cells, azacitidine is phosphorylated to 5-azacytidine monophosphate by uridine-cytidine kinase, then to diphosphate by pyrimidine monophosphate kinases and triphosphate by diphosphate kinases. 5-Azacitidine triphosphate is incorporated into RNA, leading to the disruption of nuclear and cytoplasmic RNA metabolism and inhibition of protein synthesis. 5-Azacytidine diphosphate is reduced to 5-aza-deoxycytidine diphosphate by ribonucleotide reductase. The resultant metabolite is phosphorylated to 5-azadeoxycitidine triphosphate by nucleoside diphosphate kinases. 5-azadeoxycitidine triphosphate is then incoporated into DNA, leading to inhibition of DNA synthesis. Azacitidine is most toxic during the S-phase of the cell cycle. Azacitidine (5-azacytidine) is a chemical analogue of the cytosine nucleoside used in DNA and RNA. Azacitidine may induce antineoplastic activity by inhibition of DNA methyltransferase at low doses and cytotoxicity through incorporation into RNA and DNA at high doses. Covalent binding to DNA methyltransferase results in hypomethylation of DNA and prevents DNA synthesis. As azacitidine is a ribonucleoside, it incoporates into RNA to a larger extent than into DNA. The incorporation into RNA leads to the dissembly of polyribosomes, defective methylation and acceptor function of transfer RNA, and inhibition of the production of protein, resulting in cell death. Azacitidine is rapidly absorbed after subcutaneous administration. The bioavailability of subcutaneous azacitidine relative to IV azacitidine is approximately 89%, based on area under the curve. An in vitro study of azacitidine incubation in human liver fractions indicated that azacitidine may be metabolized by the liver. The potential of azacitidine to inhibit cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes is not known. Following IV administration of radioactive azacitidine to 5 cancer patients, the cumulative urinary excretion was 85% of the radioactive dose.
Diethylpropion | DrugBank Online A appetite depressant considered to produce less central nervous system disturbance than most drugs in this therapeutic category. It is also considered to be among the safest for patients with hypertension. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1994, p2290) Used in the management of exogenous obesity as a short-term adjunct (a few weeks) in a regimen of weight reduction based on caloric restriction. Diethylpropion is a sympathomimetic stimulant drug marketed as an appetite suppressant. Chemically, it is the N,N-diethyl analog of cathinone. Its mechanism of action is similar to other appetite suppressants such as sibutramine, phentermine and dextroamphetamine. Diethylpropion is an amphetamine that stimulates neurons to release or maintain high levels of a particular group of neurotransmitters known as catecholamines; these include dopamine and norepinephrine. High levels of these catecholamines tend to suppress hunger signals and appetite. Diethylpropion (through catecholamine elevation) may also indirectly affect leptin levels in the brain. It is theorized that diethylpropion can raise levels of leptin which signal satiety. It is also theorized that increased levels of the catecholamines are partially responsible for halting another chemical messenger known as neuropeptide Y. This peptide initiates eating, decreases energy expenditure, and increases fat storage. Diethylpropion is rapidly absorbed from the GI tract after oral administration. Extensively metabolized through a complex pathway of biotransformation involving N-dealkylation and reduction. Many of these metabolites are biologically active and may participate in the therapeutic action of diethylpropion. Diethylpropion is rapidly absorbed from the GI tract after oral administration and is extensively metabolized through a complex pathway of biotransformation involving N-dealkylation and reduction. Diethylpropion and/or its active metabolites are believed to cross the blood-brain barrier and the placenta. Diethylpropion and its metabolites are excreted mainly by the kidney. Using a phosphorescence assay that is specific for basic compounds containing benzoyl group, the plasma half-life of the aminoketone metabolites is estimated to be between 4 to 6 hours. The reported oral LD50 for mice is 600 mg/kg, for rats is 250 mg/kg and for dogs is 225 mg/kg. Manifestation of acute overdosage include restlessness, tremor, hyperreflexia, rapid respiration, confusion, assaultiveness, hallucinations, and panic states. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Schutte, J.; U.S. Patent 3,001,910; September 26, 1961; assigned to Firma Ternmler-Werke
Hexafluronium | DrugBank Online Hexafluronium bromide is a neuromuscular blocking agent used in anesthesiology to prolong and potentiate the skeletal muscle relaxing action of suxamethonium during surgery. It is known to bind and block the activity of plasma cholinesterases. Used as an adjunct with succinylcholine (or suxamethonium chloride) to prolong muscle relaxation and to prevent succinylcholine-induced muscle fasciculations. Hexafluronium bromide is a cholinesterase antagonist that can be used to prolong the relaxation effects of succinylcholine or suxamethonium chloride. Suxamethonium acts as a depolarizing muscle relaxant. It imitates the action of acetylcholine at the neuromuscular junction and is degraded by pseudocholinesterase, a plasma cholinesterase. The prolonged stimulation of the acetylcholine receptor results first in disorganized muscle contractions, then in profound relaxation. Cholinesterases catalyze the hydrolysis of the neurotransmitter acetylcholine into choline and acetic acid, a reaction necessary to allow a cholinergic neuron to return to its resting state after activation. There are two types of cholinesterase acetylcholinesterase and pseuodocholinesterase. The first hydrolyses acetylcholine more quickly; the latter hydrolyses butyrylcholine and succinylcholine more quickly. An absence or mutation of the pseudocholinesterase enzyme leads to a medical condition known simply as pseudocholinesterase deficiency. This is a silent condition that only manifests itself when people who have the deficiency receive the muscle relaxants succinylcholine or mivacurium during a surgery. Hexafluronium bromide is a non-competitive reversible inhibitor of human plasma cholinesterase or pseudocholinesterase.
Aspirin | DrugBank Online Also known as Aspirin, acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) is a commonly used drug for the treatment of pain and fever due to various causes. Acetylsalicylic acid has both anti-inflammatory and antipyretic effects. This drug also inhibits platelet aggregation and is used in the prevention of blood clots stroke, and myocardial infarction (MI) Label.  Interestingly, the results of various studies have demonstrated that long-term use of acetylsalicylic acid may decrease the risk of various cancers, including colorectal, esophageal, breast, lung, prostate, liver and skin cancer 15. Aspirin is classified as a non-selective cyclooxygenase (COX) inhibitor 11,14 and is available in many doses and forms, including chewable tablets, suppositories, extended release formulations, and others 19.  Acetylsalicylic acid is a very common cause of accidental poisoning in young children. It should be kept out of reach from young children, toddlers, and infants Label. Pain, fever, and inflammation Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA), in the regular tablet form (immediate-release), is indicated to relieve pain, fever, and inflammation associated with many conditions, including the flu, the common cold, neck and back pain, dysmenorrhea, headache, tooth pain, sprains, fractures, myositis, neuralgia, synovitis, arthritis, bursitis, burns, and various injuries. It is also used for symptomatic pain relief after surgical and dental procedures Label.  The extra strength formulation of acetylsalicylic acid is also indicated for the management migraine pain with photophobia (sensitivity to light) and phonophobia (sensitivity to sound)Label. Other indications ASA is also indicated for various other purposes, due to its ability to inhibit platelet aggregation. These include:  Reducing the risk of cardiovascular death in suspected cases of myocardial infarction (MI) Label.  Reducing the risk of a first non-fatal myocardial infarction in patients, and for reducing the risk of morbidity and mortality in cases of unstable angina and in those who have had a prior myocardial infarction Label. For reducing the risk of transient ischemic attacks (TIA) and to prevent atherothrombotic cerebral infarction (in conjunction with other treatments) Label. For the prevention of thromboembolism after hip replacement surgery Label.  For decreasing platelet to platelet adhesion following carotid endarterectomy, aiding in the prevention of transient ischemic attacks (TIA) Label. Used for patients undergoing hemodialysis with a silicone rubber arteriovenous cannula inserted to prevent thrombosis at the insertion site Label.  Important note regarding use of the extended-release formulation 21 In the setting of acute myocardial infarction, or before percutaneous interventions, the extended-release form of acetylsalicylic acid should not be used. Use immediate-release formulations in scenarios requiring rapid onset of action Label,21. The extended-release form is taken to decrease the incidence of mortality and myocardial infarction (MI) for individuals diagnosed with chronic coronary artery disease (CAD), including patients with previous myocardial infarction (MI) or unstable angina or with chronic stable angina. Additionally, the extended-release form is used to decrease the risk of death and recurrent episodes of stroke in patients with a history of stroke or TIA 21. Effects on pain and fever Acetylsalicylic acid disrupts the production of prostaglandins throughout the body by targeting cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) 9,10,11. Prostaglandins are potent, irritating substances that have been shown to cause headaches and pain upon injection into humans. Prostaglandins increase the sensitivity of pain receptors and substances such as histamine and bradykinin. Through the disruption of the production and prevention of release of prostaglandins in inflammation, this drug may stop their action at pain receptors, preventing symptoms of pain. Acetylsalicylic acid is considered an antipyretic agent because of its ability to interfere with the production of brain prostaglandin E1. Prostaglandin E1 is known to be an extremely powerful fever-inducing agent Label.  Effects on platelet aggregation The inhibition of platelet aggregation by ASA occurs because of its interference with thromboxane A2 in platelets, caused by COX-1 inhibition. Thromboxane A2 is an important lipid responsible for platelet aggregation, which can lead to clot formation and future risk of heart attack or stroke Label.  A note on cancer prevention ASA has been studied in recent years to determine its effect on the prevention of various malignancies 15. In general, acetylsalicylic acid is involved in the interference of various cancer signaling pathways, sometimes inducing or upregulating tumor suppressor genes 15,17. Results of various studies suggest that there are beneficial effects of long-term ASA use in the prevention of several types of cancer, including stomach, colorectal, pancreatic, and liver cancers 16. Research is ongoing. Acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) blocks prostaglandin synthesis. It is non-selective for COX-1 and COX-2 enzymes 9,10,11. Inhibition of COX-1 results in the inhibition of platelet aggregation for about 7-10 days (average platelet lifespan). The acetyl group of acetylsalicylic acid binds with a serine residue of the cyclooxygenase-1 (COX-1) enzyme, leading to irreversible inhibition. This prevents the production of pain-causing prostaglandins. This process also stops the conversion of arachidonic acid to thromboxane A2 (TXA2), which is a potent inducer of platelet aggregation Label. Platelet aggregation can result in clots and harmful venous and arterial thromboembolism, leading to conditions such as pulmonary embolism and stroke.  It is important to note that there is 60% homology between the protein structures of COX-1 and COX-2. ASA binds to serine 516 residue on the active site of COX-2 in the same fashion as its binding to the serine 530 residue located on the active site of COX-1. The active site of COX-2 is, however, slightly larger than the active site of COX-1, so that arachidonic acid (which later becomes prostaglandins) manages to bypass the aspirin molecule inactivating COX-2 11,12. ASA, therefore, exerts more action on the COX-1 receptor rather than on the COX-2 receptor 14. A higher dose of acetylsalicylic acid is required for COX-2 inhibition 15.  Absorption is generally rapid and complete following oral administration but absorption may be variable depending on the route, dosage form, and other factors including but not limited to the rate of tablet dissolution, gastric contents, gastric emptying time, and gastric pH Label. Detailed absorption information When ingested orally, acetylsalicylic acid is rapidly absorbed in both the stomach and proximal small intestine. The non-ionized acetylsalicylic acid passes through the stomach lining by passive diffusion. Ideal absorption of salicylate in the stomach occurs in the pH range of 2.15 - 4.10. Intestinal absorption of acetylsalicylic acid occurs at a much faster rate. At least half of the ingested dose is hydrolyzed to salicylic acid in the first-hour post-ingestion by esterases found in the gastrointestinal tract. Peak plasma salicylate concentrations occur between 1-2 hours post-administration Label. This drug is distributed to body tissues shortly after administration. It is known to cross the placenta. The plasma contains high levels of salicylate, as well as tissues such as spinal, peritoneal and synovial fluids, saliva and milk. The kidney, liver, heart, and lungs are also found to be rich in salicylate concentration after dosing. Low concentrations of salicylate are usually low, and minimal concentrations are found in feces, bile, and sweat Label. 50% to 90% of a normal therapeutic concentration salicylate (a main metabolite of acetylsalicylic acid Label) binds plasma proteins, particularly albumin, while acetylsalicylic acid itself binds negligibly Label. Acetylsalicylic acid has the ability to bind to and acetylate many proteins, hormones, DNA, platelets, and hemoglobin Label. Acetylsalicylic acid is hydrolyzed in the plasma to salicylic acid. Plasma concentrations of aspirin following after administration of the extended-release form are mostly undetectable 4-8 hours after ingestion of a single dose. Salicylic acid was measured at 24 hours following a single dose of extended-release acetylsalicylic acid 21. Salicylate is mainly metabolized in the liver, although other tissues may also be involved in this process Label. The major metabolites of acetylsalicylic acid are salicylic acid, salicyluric acid, the ether or phenolic glucuronide and the ester or acyl glucuronide. A small portion is converted to gentisic acid and other hydroxybenzoic acids Label. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Excretion of salicylates occurs mainly through the kidney, by the processes of glomerular filtration and tubular excretion, in the form of free salicylic acid, salicyluric acid, and, additionally, phenolic and acyl glucuronides Label.  Salicylate can be found in the urine soon after administration, however, the entire dose takes about 48 hours to be completely eliminated. The rate of salicylate is often variable, ranging from 10% to 85% in the urine, and heavily depends on urinary pH. Acidic urine generally aids in reabsorption of salicylate by the renal tubules, while alkaline urine increases excretion Label. After the administration of a typical 325mg dose, the elimination of ASA is found to follow first order kinetics in a linear fashion. At high concentrations, the elimination half-life increases Label. The half-life of ASA in the circulation ranges from 13 - 19 minutes. Blood concentrations drop rapidly after complete absorption. The half-life of the salicylate ranges between 3.5 and 4.5 hours Label. The clearance rate of acetylsalicylic acid is extremely variable, depending on several factors 6. Dosage adjustments may be required in patients with renal impairment Label. The extended-release tablet should not be administered to patients with eGFR of less than 10 mL/min 21. Lethal doses Acute oral LD50 values have been reported as over 1.0 g/kg in humans, cats, and dogs, 0.92 g/kg - 1.48 g/kg in albino rats, 1.19 g/kg in guinea pigs, 1.1 g/kg in mice, and 1.8 g/kg in rabbit models Label. Acute toxicity Salicylate toxicity is a problem that may develop with both acute and chronic salicylate exposure 7.
Fulvestrant | DrugBank Online Fulvestrant is a drug treatment of hormone receptor (HR)-positive metastatic breast cancer in post-menopausal women with disease progression following anti-estrogen therapy. It is an estrogen receptor antagonist with no agonist effects, which works both by down-regulating and by degrading the estrogen receptor. While it is used as monotherapy for the treatment of breast cancers, it is also used in combination with alpelisib for the treatment of HR-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative, PIK3CA-mutated, advanced or metastatic breast cancer For the treatment of hormone receptor positive metastatic breast cancer in postmenopausal women with disease progression following anti-estrogen therapy, as monotherapy or in combination with other antineoplastic agents. Fulvestrant for intramuscular administration is an estrogen receptor antagonist without known agonist effects. Fulvestrant competitively and reversibly binds to estrogen receptors present in cancer cells and achieves its anti-estrogen effects through two separate mechanisms. First, fulvestrant binds to the receptors and downregulates them so that estrogen is no longer able to bind to these receptors. Second, fulvestrant degrades the estrogen receptors to which it is bound. Both of these mechanisms inhibit the growth of tamoxifen-resistant as well as estrogen-sensitive human breast cancer cell lines. 99% (mainly VLDL, LDL, and HDL) Metabolism of fulvestrant appears to involve combinations of a number of possible biotransformation pathways analogous to those of endogenous steroids, including oxidation, aromatic hydroxylation, conjugation with glucuronic acid and/or sulphate at the 2, 3 and 17 positions of the steroid nucleus, and oxidation of the side chain sulphoxide. Identified metabolites are either less active or exhibit similar activity to fulvestrant in antiestrogen models. Studies using human liver preparations and recombinant human enzymes indicate that cytochrome P-450 3A4 (CYP 3A4) is the only P-450 isoenzyme involved in the oxidation of fulvestrant; however, the relative contribution of P-450 and non-P-450 routes in vivo is unknown. Fulvestrant was rapidly cleared by the hepatobiliary route with excretion primarily via the feces (approximately 90%).
Hydrocodone | DrugBank Online Hydrocodone is a synthetic opioid derivative of codeine.14 It is commonly used in combination with acetaminophen to control moderate to severe pain. Historically, hydrocodone has been used as a cough suppressant although this has largely been replaced by dextromethorphan in current cough and cold formulations. Hydrocodone's more potent metabolite, hydromorphone has also found wide use as an analgesic and is frequently used in cases of severe pain. The FDA first approved Hydrocodone for use as part of the cough suppressant syrup Hycodan in March of 1943.17 Hydrocodone is indicated for the management of acute pain, sometimes in combination with acetaminophen or ibuprofen, as well as the symptomatic treatment of the common cold and allergic rhinitis in combination with decongestants, antihistamines, and expectorants.Label,16 Hydrocodone inhibits pain signaling in both the spinal cord and brain 12. Its actions in the brain also produce euphoria, respiratory depression, and sedation. Hydrocodone binds to the mu opioid receptor (MOR) with the highest affinity followed by the delta opioid receptors (DOR).13 Hydrocodone's agonist effect at the MOR is considered to contribute the most to its analgesic effects. Both MOR and DOR are Gi/o coupled and and produces its signal through activation of inward rectifier potassium (GIRK) channels, inhibition of voltage gated calcium channel opening, and decreased adenylyl cyclase activity.14 In the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, activation of pre-synaptic MOR on primary afferents the inhibition of calcium channel opening and increased activity of GIRK channels hyperpolarizes the neuron and prevents release of neurotransmitters. Post-synaptic MOR can also prevent activation of neurons by glutamate through the aforementioned mechanisms.  Hydrocodone can also produce several actions in the brain similarly to other opioids.
Carboplatin | DrugBank Online An organoplatinum compound that possesses antineoplastic activity. For the initial treatment of advanced ovarian carcinoma in established combination with other approved chemotherapeutic agents. One established combination regimen consists of PARAPLATIN and cyclophosphamide. It is also indicated for the palliative treatment of patients with ovarian carcinoma recurrent after prior chemotherapy, including patients who have been previously treated with cisplatin.  Carboplatin is an antineoplastic in the class of alkylating agents and is used to treat various forms of cancer. Alkylating agents are so named because of their ability to add alkyl groups to many electronegative groups under conditions present in cells. They stop tumor growth by cross-linking guanine bases in DNA double-helix strands - directly attacking DNA. This makes the strands unable to uncoil and separate. As this is necessary in DNA replication, the cells can no longer divide. In addition, these drugs add methyl or other alkyl groups onto molecules where they do not belong which in turn inhibits their correct utilization by base pairing and causes a miscoding of DNA. Alkylating agents are cell cycle-nonspecific. Alkylating agents work by three different mechanisms all of which achieve the same end result - disruption of DNA function and cell death. Alkylating agents work by three different mechanisms: 1) attachment of alkyl groups to DNA bases, resulting in the DNA being fragmented by repair enzymes in their attempts to replace the alkylated bases, preventing DNA synthesis and RNA transcription from the affected DNA, 2) DNA damage via the formation of cross-links (bonds between atoms in the DNA) which prevents DNA from being separated for synthesis or transcription, and 3) the induction of mispairing of the nucleotides leading to mutations. The Cmax values and areas under the plasma concentration versus time curves from 0 to infinity (AUC inf) increase linearly with dose, although the increase was slightly more than dose proportional. Carboplatin exhibits linear pharmacokinetics.  Carboplatin is not bound to plasma protein. However, the platinum itself from carboplatin irreversibly binds to plasma proteins and is slowly eliminated with a minimum half-life of 5 days.  The major route of elimination of carboplatin is renal excretion. After 24 hours, all of the platinum is recovered in the urine as carboplatin. Whether biliary excretion occurs is not known.  Initial plasma half-life (alpha) = 1.1 to 2 hours;
Post distribution plasma half-life (beta) = 2.6 - 5.9 hours.  Toxic by ingestion. May be create toxic effect through inhalation or skin contact. May cause reproductive defects. May act as a sensitizer.
Dactinomycin | DrugBank Online A compound composed of a two cyclic peptides attached to a phenoxazine that is derived from streptomyces parvullus. It binds to DNA and inhibits RNA synthesis (transcription), with chain elongation more sensitive than initiation, termination, or release. As a result of impaired mRNA production, protein synthesis also declines after dactinomycin therapy. (From AMA Drug Evaluations Annual, 1993, p2015) For the treatment of Wilms' tumor, childhood rhabdomyosarcoma, Ewing's sarcoma and metastatic, nonseminomatous testicular cancer as part of a combination chemotherapy and/or multi-modality treatment regimen Generally, the actinomycins exert an inhibitory effect on gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria and on some fungi. However, the toxic properties of the actinomycins (including dactinomycin) in relation to antibacterial activity are such as to preclude their use as antibiotics in the treatment of infectious diseases. Because the actinomycins are cytotoxic, they have an antineoplastic effect which has been demonstrated in experimental animals with various types of tumor implant. This cytotoxic action is the basis for their use in the treatment of certain types of cancer. Dactinomycin is believed to produce its cytotoxic effects by binding DNA and inhibiting RNA synthesis. Good evidence exists that this drug bind strongly, but reversibly, to DNA, interfering with synthesis of RNA (prevention of RNA polymerase elongation) and, consequently, with protein synthesis. poorly absorbed from gastrointestinal tract 5% hepatic 36 hours hepatoxicity Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Waksman, S.A. and Woodruff, H.B.; US. Patent 2,378,876; June 19,1945; assigned to
Ramelteon | DrugBank Online Ramelteon is the first in a new class of sleep agents that selectively binds to the melatonin receptors in the suprachiasmatic nucleus (SCN). It is used for insomnia, particularly delayed sleep onset. Ramelteon has not been shown to produce dependence and has shown no potential for abuse. For the treatment of insomnia characterized by difficulty with sleep onset. Ramelteon is the first selective melatonin agonist. It works by mimicking melatonin (MT), a naturally occuring hormone that is produced during the sleep period and thought to be responsible for the regulation of circadian rhythm underlying the normal sleep-wake cycle. Ramelteon has a high affinity for the MT1 and MT2 receptors. The MT1 and MT2 receptors are located in the brain's suprachiasmatic nuclei (SCN),which is known as the body's "master clock" because it regulates the 24-hour sleep-wake cycle. Ramelteon has an active metabolite that is less potent but circulates in higher concentrations than the parent compound. The metabolite also has weak affinity for the 5HT2b receptor. Ramelteon is a melatonin receptor agonist with both high affinity for melatonin MT1 and MT2 receptors, and lower selectivity for the MT3 receptor. Melatonin production is concurrent with nocturnal sleep, meaning that an increase in melatonin levels is related to the onset of self-reported sleepiness and an increase in sleep propensity. MT1 receptors are believed to be responsible for regulation of sleepiness and facilitation of sleep onset, and MT2 receptors are believed to mediate phase-shifting effects of melatonin on the circadian rhythm. While MT1 and MT2 receptors are associated with the sleep-wake cycle, MT3 has a completely different profile, and therefore is not likely to be involved in the sleep-wake cycle. Remelteon has no appreciable affinity for the gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) receptor complex or receptors that bind neuropeptides, cytokines, serotonin, dopamine, norepinephrine, acetylcholine, or opiates. Rapid, total absorption is at least 84%. ~82% (in human serum) Hepatic Following oral administration of radiolabeled ramelteon, 84% of total radioactivity was excreted in urine and approximately 4% in feces, resulting in a mean recovery of 88%.
Dimenhydrinate | DrugBank Online Dimenhydrinate, also known as Dramamine or Gravol, is an over-the-counter drug used to prevent nausea, vomiting, and dizziness caused by motion sickness. Dimenhydrinate is a combination drug composed of Diphenhydramine and 8-chlorotheophylline in a salt form, with 53%-55.5% of diphenhydramine, and not less than 44%-47% of 8-chlorotheophylline, calculated on the dried basis.  The antiemetic properties of dimenhydrinate are primarily thought to be produced by diphenhydramine's antagonism of H1 histamine receptors in the vestibular system 3 while the excitatory effects are thought to be produced by 8-chlorotheophylline's adenosine receptor blockade 4. The addition of 8-chlorotheophylline was initially intended to counteract the sedative effects of diphenhydramine. When used in large doses, dimenhydrinate has been shown to cause a "high" characterized by hallucinations, excitement, incoordination, and disorientation 2. Dimenhydrinate is indicated for the prevention and treatment of nausea, vomiting, or vertigo of motion sickness. Dimenhydrinate is an antiemetics drug combination that contains diphenhydramine and theophylline. It is not effective in the treatment of nausea associated with cancer chemotherapy. Dimenhydrinate directly inhibits the stimulation of certain nerves in the brain and inner ear to suppress nausea, vomiting, dizziness, and vertigo. Diphenhydramine and dimenhydinate both reduce vestibular neuronal excitation due to angular or linear acceleration motions.  The mechanism by which some antihistamines exert their antiemetic, anti-motion sickness, and anti-vertigo effects is not precisely known but may be related to their central anticholinergic actions. They diminish vestibular stimulation and depress labyrinthine function. An action on the medullary chemoreceptive trigger zone may also be involved in the antiemetic effect. Dimenhydrinate is a competitive antagonist at the histamine H1 receptor, which is widely distributed in the human brain. Dimenhydrinate's anti-emetic effect is probably due to H1 antagonism in the vestibular system in the brain.  Well absorbed after oral administration. 98 to 99%. Hepatic (cytochrome P-450 system). 1 to 4 hours Symptoms of overdose include delerium, hallucinations, and excitment. Patients may be violent and confused.  Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Cusic, J.W.; U.S. Patent 2,499,058; February 28,1950; assigned to G.D. Searle & Co.
Dopamine | DrugBank Online One of the catecholamine neurotransmitters in the brain. It is derived from tyrosine and is the precursor to norepinephrine and epinephrine. Dopamine is a major transmitter in the extrapyramidal system of the brain, and important in regulating movement. A family of receptors (receptors, dopamine) mediate its action. For the correction of hemodynamic imbalances present in the shock syndrome due to myocardial infarction, trauma, endotoxic septicemia, open-heart surgery, renal failure, and chronic cardiac decompensation as in congestive failure Dopamine is a natural catecholamine formed by the decarboxylation of 3,4-dihydroxyphenylalanine (DOPA). It is a precursor to norepinephrine in noradrenergic nerves and is also a neurotransmitter in certain areas of the central nervous system, especially in the nigrostriatal tract, and in a few peripheral sympathetic nerves. Dopamine produces positive chronotropic and inotropic effects on the myocardium, resulting in increased heart rate and cardiac contractility. This is accomplished directly by exerting an agonist action on beta-adrenoceptors and indirectly by causing release of norepinephrine from storage sites in sympathetic nerve endings. Dopamine is a precursor to norepinephrine in noradrenergic nerves and is also a neurotransmitter in certain areas of the central nervous system. Dopamine produces positive chronotropic and inotropic effects on the myocardium, resulting in increased heart rate and cardiac contractility. This is accomplished directly by exerting an agonist action on beta-adrenoceptors and indirectly by causing release of norepinephrine from storage sites in sympathetic nerve endings. In the brain, dopamine actas as an agonist to the five dopamine receptor subtypes (D!, D2, D3, D4, D5). Dopamine is rapidly absorbed from the small intestine. No information currently available on protein binding. Biotransformation of dopamine proceeds rapidly to yield the principal excretion products, 3-4-dihydroxy-phenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxy-phenylacetic acid (homovanillic acid, HVA). Hover over products below to view reaction partners It has been reported that about 80% of the drug is excreted in the urine within 24 hours, primarily as HVA and its sulfate and glucuronide conjugates and as 3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid.
Oxaprozin | DrugBank Online Oxaprozin is a non-narcotic, non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID), used to relieve the inflammation, swelling, stiffness, and joint pain associated with osteoarthritis and rheumatoid arthritis. Used to relieve the inflammation, swelling, stiffness, and joint pain associated with rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. Oxaprozin is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) with analgesic and antipyretic properties. Oxaprozin is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, dysmenorrhea, and to alleviate moderate pain. Anti-inflammatory effects of Oxaprozin are believed to be due to inhibition of cylooxygenase in platelets which leads to the blockage of prostaglandin synthesis. Antipyretic effects may be due to action on the hypothalamus, resulting in an increased peripheral blood flow, vasodilation, and subsequent heat dissipation. Oxaprozin is a non-selective NSAID, with a cell assay system showing lower COX-2 selectivity implying higher COX-1 selectivity.  Oxaprozin is 95% absorbed after oral administration. Food may reduce the rate of absorption of oxaprozin, but the extent of absorption is unchanged. Antacids do not significantly affect the extent and rate of oxaprozin absorption. >99.5% bound to albumin Hepatic. Ester and ether glucuronide are the major conjugated metabolites of oxaprozin, and do not have significant pharmacologic activity. Oxaprozin is expected to be excreted in human milk based on its physical-chemical properties; however, the amount of oxaprozin excreted in breast milk has not been evaluated. Approximately 95% of oxaprozin is metabolized by the liver. Approximately 5% of the oxaprozin dose is excreted unchanged in the urine. Sixty-five percent (65%) of the dose is excreted in the urine and 35% in the feces as metabolite.
Doxorubicin | DrugBank Online Doxorubicin is a cytotoxic anthracycline antibiotic isolated from cultures of Streptomyces peucetius var. caesius. Doxorubicin binds to nucleic acids, presumably by specific intercalation of the planar anthracycline nucleus with the DNA double helix. Doxorubicin is used to produce regression in disseminated neoplastic conditions like acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myeloblastic leukemia, Wilms’ tumor, neuroblastoma, soft tissue and bone sarcomas, breast carcinoma, ovarian carcinoma, transitional cell bladder carcinoma, thyroid carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, Hodgkin’s disease, malignant lymphoma and bronchogenic carcinoma in which the small cell histologic type is the most responsive compared to other cell types. Doxorubicin is also indicated for use as a component of adjuvant therapy in women with evidence of axillary lymph node involvement following resection of primary breast cancer. Doxorubicin is an antineoplastic in the anthracycline class. General properties of drugs in this class include: interaction with DNA in a variety of different ways including intercalation (squeezing between the base pairs), DNA strand breakage and inhibition with the enzyme topoisomerase II. Most of these compounds have been isolated from natural sources and antibiotics. However, they lack the specificity of the antimicrobial antibiotics and thus produce significant toxicity. The anthracyclines are among the most important antitumor drugs available. Doxorubicin is widely used for the treatment of several solid tumors while daunorubicin and idarubicin are used exclusively for the treatment of leukemia. Doxorubicin may also inhibit polymerase activity, affect regulation of gene expression, and produce free radical damage to DNA. Doxorubicin possesses an antitumor effect against a wide spectrum of tumors, either grafted or spontaneous. The anthracyclines are cell cycle-nonspecific. Doxorubicin has antimitotic and cytotoxic activity through a number of proposed mechanisms of action: Doxorubicin forms complexes with DNA by intercalation between base pairs, and it inhibits topoisomerase II activity by stabilizing the DNA-topoisomerase II complex, preventing the religation portion of the ligation-religation reaction that topoisomerase II catalyzes. The distributive half-life is 5 minutes, which suggests that doxorubicin is rapidly taken up by tissue.
Cyclacillin | DrugBank Online A cyclohexylamido analog of penicillanic acid. For the treatment of bacterial infections caused by susceptible organisms. Cyclacillin, a penicillin, is a cyclohexylamido analog of penicillanic acid. Cyclacillin is more resistant to beta-lactamase hydrolysis than ampicillin, is much better absorbed when given by mouth and, as a result, the levels reached in the blood and in the urine are considerably higher than those obtained with the same dose of ampicillin. Cyclacillin has been replaced by newer penicillin treatments. The bactericidal activity of cyclacillin results from the inhibition of cell wall synthesis via affinity for penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs). Cyclacillin is stable in the presence of a variety of b-lactamases, including penicillinases and some cephalosporinases. Moderately absorbed. Symptoms of overdose include severe diarrhea, nausea and vomiting. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Alburn, H.E., Grant, N.H. and Fletcher, H. Ill; US.Patent 3,194,802; assigned to American
Home Products Corporation.
Robinson, C.A. and Nescio, J.J.; US.Patent 3,478,018; November 11,1969; assigned to
Levobupivacaine | DrugBank Online Levobupivacaine is an amino-amide local anaesthetic drug belonging to the family of n-alkylsubstituted
Hydroxyurea | DrugBank Online An antineoplastic agent that inhibits DNA synthesis through the inhibition of ribonucleoside diphosphate reductase. For management of melanoma, resistant chronic myelocytic leukemia, and recurrent, metastatic, or inoperable carcinoma of the ovary and Sickle-cell anemia. Hydroxyurea has dose-dependent synergistic activity with cisplatin in vitro. In vivo Hydroxyurea showed activity in combination with cisplatin against the LX-1 and CALU-6 human lung xenografts, but minimal activity was seen with the NCI-H460 or NCI-H520 xenografts. Hydroxyurea was synergistic with cisplatin in the Lewis lung murine xenograft. Sequential exposure to Hydroxyurea 4 hours before cisplatin produced the greatest interaction. Hydroxyurea is converted to a free radical nitroxide (NO) in vivo, and transported by diffusion into cells where it quenches the tyrosyl free radical at the active site of the M2 protein subunit of ribonucleotide reductase, inactivating the enzyme. The entire replicase complex, including ribonucleotide reductase, is inactivated and DNA synthesis is selectively inhibited, producing cell death in S phase and synchronization of the fraction of cells that survive. Repair of DNA damaged by chemicals or irradiation is also inhibited by hydroxyurea, offering potential synergy between hydroxyurea and radiation or alkylating agents. Hydroxyurea also increases the level of fetal hemoglobin, leading to a reduction in the incidence of vasoocclusive crises in sickle cell anemia. Levels of fetal hemoglobin increase in response to activation of soluble guanylyl cyclase (sGC) by hydroxyurea-derived NO. Well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Hepatic. Renal excretion is a pathway of elimination. 3-4 hours Oral, mouse: LD50 = 7330 mg/kg; Oral, rat: LD50 = 5760 mg/kg
Teratogenicity: Teratogenic effects have occurred in experimental animals.Hydroxyurea use during a small number of human pregnancies has been reported. Adverse effects have not been observed in any of the exposed newborns.
Reproductive Effects: Adverse reproductive effects have occurred in experimental animals.
Tioconazole | DrugBank Online Tioconazole is an imidazole antifungal used to treat fungal and yeast infections. Topical formulations are used for ringworm, jock itch, athlete's foot, and tinea versicolor or "sun fungus". Tioconazole interacts with 14-alpha demethylase, a cytochrome P-450 enzyme that converts lanosterol to ergosterol, an essential component of the yeast membrane. In this way, tioconazole inhibits ergosterol synthesis, resulting in increased cellular permeability. For the local treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis (moniliasis). Tioconazole is a broad-spectrum imidazole antifungal agent that inhibits the growth of human pathogenic yeasts. Tioconazole exhibits fungicidal activity in vitro against Candida albicans, other species of the genus Candida, and against Torulopsis glabrata. Tioconazole prevents the growth and function of some fungal organisms by interfering with the production of substances needed to preserve the cell membrane. This drug is effective only for infections caused by fungal organisms. It will not work for bacterial or viral infections. Tioconazole interacts with 14-α demethylase, a cytochrome P-450 enzyme that converts lanosterol to ergosterol, an essential component of the yeast membrane. In this way, tioconazole inhibits ergosterol synthesis, resulting in increased cellular permeability. Tioconazole may also inhibit endogenous respiration, interact with membrane phospholipids, inhibit the transformation of yeasts to mycelial forms and the uptake of purine, impair triglyceride and/or phospholipid biosynthesis, and inhibit the movement of calcium and potassium ions across the cell membrane by blocking the ion transport pathway known as the Gardos channel. Systemic absorption following a single intravaginal application of tioconazole in nonpregnant patients is negligible. Orally administered tioconazole is extensively metabolized. The major metabolites are glucuronide conjugates. Symptoms of overdose include erythema, stinging, blistering, peeling, edema, pruritus, urticaria, burning,
Busulfan | DrugBank Online Busulfan is a bifunctional alkylating agent, having a selective immunosuppressive effect on bone marrow. It is not a structural analog of the nitrogen mustards. It has been used in the palliative treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (myeloid leukemia, chronic), but although symptomatic relief is provided, no permanent remission is brought about. According to the Fourth Annual Report on Carcinogens (NTP 85-002, 1985), busulfan is listed as a known carcinogen. For use in combination with cyclophosphamide as a conditioning regimen prior to allogeneic hematopoietic progenitor cell transplantation for chronic myelogenous (myeloid, myelocytic, granulocytic) leukemia (FDA has designated busulfan as an orphan drug for this use). It is also used as a component of pretransplant conditioning regimens in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation for acute myeloid leukemia and nonmalignant diseases. Busulfan is an antineoplastic in the class of alkylating agents and is used to treat various forms of cancer. Alkylating agents are so named because of their ability to add alkyl groups to many electronegative groups under conditions present in cells. They stop tumor growth by cross-linking guanine bases in DNA double-helix strands - directly attacking DNA. This makes the strands unable to uncoil and separate. As this is necessary in DNA replication, the cells can no longer divide. In addition, these drugs add methyl or other alkyl groups onto molecules where they do not belong which in turn leads to a miscoding of DNA. Alkylating agents are cell cycle-nonspecific and work by three different mechanisms, all of which achieve the same end result - disruption of DNA function and cell death. Overexpression of MGST2, a glutathione s-transferase, is thought to confer resistance to busulfan. The role of MGST2 in the metabolism of busulfan is unknown however.  Busulfan is an alkylating agent that contains 2 labile methanesulfonate groups attached to opposite ends of a 4-carbon alkyl chain. Once busulfan is hydrolyzed, the methanesulfonate groups are released and carbonium ions are produced. These carbonium ions alkylate DNA, which results in the interference of DNA replication and RNA transcription, ultimately leading to the disruption of nucleic acid function. Specifically, its mechanism of action through alkylation produces guanine-adenine intrastrand crosslinks. These crosslinks occur through a SN2 reaction guanine N7 nucleophilically attacks the carbon adjacent to the mesylate leaving group. This kind of damage cannot be repaired by cellular machinery and thus the cell undergoes apoptosis. Completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Busulfan is a small, highly lipophilic molecule that crosses the blood-brain-barrier. The absolute bioavailability, if a single 2 mg IV bolus injection is given to adult patients, is 80% ± 20%. In children (1.5 - 6 years old), the absolute bioavailability was 68% ± 31%. When a single oral dose is given to patients, the area under the curve (AUC) was 130 ng•hr/mL. The peak plasma concentration when given orally is 30 ng/mL (after dose normalization to 2 mg). It takes 0.9 hours to reach peak plasma concentration after dose normalization to 4 mg.  32% bound to plasma proteins and 47% bound to red blood cells.  Busulfan is extensively metabolizes in the hepatic. Busulfan is predominantly metabolized by conjugation with glutathione, both spontaneously and by glutathione S-transferase (GST) catalysis. GSTA1 is the primary GST isoform that facilitates the the metabolism of busulfan. Other GST isoforms that are also involved are GSTM1 and GSTP1. At least 12 metabolites have been identified among which tetrahydrothiophene, tetrahydrothiophene 12-oxide, sulfolane, and 3-hydroxysulfolane were identified. These metabolites do not have cytotoxic activity.  Following administration of 14C- labeled busulfan to humans, approximately 30% of the radioactivity was excreted into the urine over 48 hours; negligible amounts were recovered in feces. Less than 2% of the administered dose is excreted in the urine unchanged within 24 hours. Elimination of busulfan is independent of renal function.  2.6 hours Signs of overdose include allergic reaction, unusual bleeding or bruising, sudden weakness or unusual fatigue, persistent cough, congestion, or shortness of breath; flank, stomach or joint pain; pronounced nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, dizziness, confusion, or darkening of the skin, chills, fever, collapse, and loss of consciousness. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Timmis, G.M.; U S . Patent 2,917,432; December 15, 1959; assigned to Burroughs Wellcome
Ketoprofen | DrugBank Online Ketoprofen, a propionic acid derivative, is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAIA) with analgesic and antipyretic properties. For symptomatic treatment of acute and chronic rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, primary dysmenorrhea and mild to moderate pain associated with musculotendinous trauma (sprains and strains), postoperative (including dental surgery) or postpartum pain. Ketoprofen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAIA) with analgesic and antipyretic properties. Ketoprofen has pharmacologic actions similar to those of other prototypical NSAIDs, which inhibit prostaglandin synthesis. Ketoprofen is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, dysmenorrhea, and alleviate moderate pain. The anti-inflammatory effects of ketoprofen are believed to be due to inhibition cylooxygenase-2 (COX-2), an enzyme involved in prostaglandin synthesis via the arachidonic acid pathway. This results in decreased levels of prostaglandins that mediate pain, fever and inflammation. Ketoprofen is a non-specific cyclooxygenase inhibitor and inhibition of COX-1 is thought to confer some of its side effects, such as GI upset and ulceration. Ketoprofen is thought to have anti-bradykinin activity, as well as lysosomal membrane-stabilizing action. Antipyretic effects may be due to action on the hypothalamus, resulting in an increased peripheral blood flow, vasodilation, and subsequent heat dissipation.  Ketoprofen is rapidly and well-absorbed orally, with peak plasma levels occurring within 0.5 to 2 hours. 99% bound, primarily to albumin Rapidly and extensively metabolized in the liver, primarily via conjugation to glucuronic acid. No active metabolites have been identified.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners In a 24 hour period, approximately 80% of an administered dose of ketoprofen is excreted in the urine, primarily as the glucuronide metabolite. Conventional capsules: 1.1-4 hours
Extended release capsules: 5.4 hours due to delayed absorption (intrinsic clearance is same as conventional capsules) Extended release capsules: 5.4 hours due to delayed absorption (intrinsic clearance is same as conventional capsules) LD50=62.4 mg/kg (rat, oral).
Symptoms of overdose include drowsiness, vomiting and abdominal pain.
Edrophonium | DrugBank Online A rapid-onset, short-acting cholinesterase inhibitor used in cardiac arrhythmias and in the diagnosis of myasthenia gravis. It has also been used as an antidote to curare principles. For the differential diagnosis of myasthenia gravis and as an adjunct in the evaluation of treatment requirements in this disease. It may also be used for evaluating emergency treatment in myasthenic crises. Edrophonium is a short and rapid-acting anticholinesterase drug. Its effect is manifest within 30 to 60 seconds after injection and lasts an average of 10 minutes. Edrophonium's pharmacologic action is due primarily to the inhibition or inactivation of acetylcholinesterase at sites of cholinergic transmission. Nicotinic acetylcholine (nAChR)receptors are found throughout the body, especially on muscle. Stimulation of these receptors causes to muscle contraction. In myasthenia gravis the body's immune system destroys many of the nicotinic acetylcholine receptors, so that the muscle becomes less responsive to nervous stimulation. Edrophonium chloride increases the amount of acetylcholine at the nerve endings. Increased levels of acetylcholine allow the remaining receptors to function more efficiently. Edrophonium works by prolonging the action acetylcholine, which is found naturally in the body. It does this by inhibiting the action of the enzyme acetylcholinesterase. Acetylcholine stimulates nicotinic and muscarinic receptors. When stimulated, these receptors have a range of effects. Rapidly absorbed. Edrophonium is primarily renally excreted with 67% of the dose appearing in the urine.
Hepatic metabolism and biliary excretion have also been demonstrated in animals Distribution half-life is 7 to 12 minutes. Elimination half-life is 33 to 110 minutes. With drugs of this type, muscarine-like symptoms (nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, sweating, increased bronchial and salivary secretions and bradycardia) often appear with overdosage (cholinergic crisis). Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Terrell, R.C.; U.S. Patents 3,469,011; September 23, 1969 and 3,527,813; September 8,
Clobetasol propionate | DrugBank Online Clobetasol propionate is a prednisolone derivative with higher specificity for glucocorticoid receptors than mineralocorticoid receptors.9 It has demonstrated superior activity compared to fluocinonide4 and was first described in the literature in 1974.1 Clobetasol Propionate was granted FDA approval on 27 December 1985.8 Clobetasol propionate is indicated to treat moderate to severe plaque psoriasis10,12 as well as inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatoses.9,13 Corticosteroids bind to the glucocorticoid receptor, inhibiting pro-inflammatory signals, and promoting anti-inflammatory signals.5 Clobetasol propionate is generally applied twice daily so the duration of action is long.9,10,11,12,13,14 Corticosteroids have a wide therapeutic window as patients may require doses that are multiples of what the body naturally produces.5 Patients taking corticosteroids should be counselled regarding the risk of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis suppression and increased susceptibility to infections.5 The short term effects of corticosteroids are decreased vasodilation and permeability of capillaries, as well as decreased leukocyte migration to sites of inflammation.5 Corticosteroids binding to the glucocorticoid receptor mediates changes in gene expression that lead to multiple downstream effects over hours to days.5 Glucocorticoids inhibit neutrophil apoptosis and demargination; they inhibit phospholipase A2, which decreases the formation of arachidonic acid derivatives; they inhibit NF-Kappa B and other inflammatory transcription factors; they promote anti-inflammatory genes like interleukin-10.5 Lower doses of corticosteroids provide an anti-inflammatory effect, while higher doses are immunosuppressive.5 High doses of glucocorticoids for an extended period bind to the mineralocorticoid receptor, raising sodium levels and decreasing potassium levels.5 Twice daily application of clobetasol foam leads to a Cmax of 59±36pg/mL with a Tmax of 5 hours.9 Clobetasol cream showed an increase in clobetasol concentrations from 50.7±96.0pg/mL to 56.3±104.7pg/mL.11 Data regarding the volume of distribution of clobetasole propionate are not readily available.9,10,11,12,13,14 Data regarding the protein binding of clobetasol propionate are not readily available.9,10,11,12,13,14 Corticosteroids are generally bound to corticosteroid binding globulin6 and serum albumin7 in plasma. The metabolism of clobetasol propionate is not well studied but it does induce metabolic enzymes, even when delivered topically.2 The metabolism of clobetasol propionate is predicted to follow similar metabolic pathways to other corticosteroids including the addition of oxygen, hydrogen, glucuronides, and sulfates to form water soluble metabolites.14 Corticosteroids are eliminated predominantly in the urine.7 Data regarding the half life of clobetasol propionate are not readily available.3 Data regarding the clearance of clobetasol propionate are not readily available.3 Data regarding acute overdoses of glucocorticoids are rare.9,10,11 Overdoses of clobetasol propionate can lead to reversible HPA axis suppression and glucocorticoid insufficiency.14 Chronic high doses of glucocorticoids can lead to the development of cataract, glaucoma, hypertension, water retention, hyperlipidemia, peptic ulcer, pancreatitis, myopathy, osteoporosis, mood changes, psychosis, dermal atrophy, allergy, acne, hypertrichosis, immune suppression, decreased resistance to infection, moon face, hyperglycemia, hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, metabolic acidosis, growth suppression, and secondary adrenal insufficiency.[A188405] Overdose may be treated by adjusting the dose or stopping the corticosteroid as well as initiating symptomatic and supportive treatment.[A188405] Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Elks, J., Phillipps, G.H. and May, P.J.; US. Patent 3,721,687; March 20, 1973; assigned to
Bethanechol | DrugBank Online Bethanechol is a synthetic ester structurally and pharmacologically related to acetylcholine. A slowly hydrolyzed muscarinic agonist with no nicotinic effects, bethanechol is generally used to increase smooth muscle tone, as in the GI tract following abdominal surgery or in urinary retention in the absence of obstruction. It may cause hypotension, cardiac rate changes, and bronchial spasms. For the treatment of acute postoperative and postpartum nonobstructive (functional) urinary retention and for neurogenic atony of the urinary bladder with retention. Bethanechol is a parasympathomimetic (cholinergic) used for the treatment of acute postoperative and postpartum nonobstructive (functional) urinary retention and for neurogenic atony of the urinary bladder with retention. Bethanechol, a cholinergic agent, is a synthetic ester which is structurally and pharmacologically related to acetylcholine. It increases the tone of the detrusor urinae muscle, usually producing a contraction sufficiently strong to initiate micturition and empty the bladder. It stimulates gastric motility, increases gastric tone, and often restores impaired rhythmic peristalsis. Bethanechol chloride is not destroyed by cholinesterase and its effects are more prolonged than those of acetytcholine. Bethanechol directly stimulates cholinergic receptors in the parasympathetic nervous system while stimulating the ganglia to a lesser extent. Its effects are predominantly muscarinic, inducing little effect on nicotinic receptors and negligible effects on the cardiovascular system. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Major, R.T. and Bonnett, H.T.; U.S. Patent 2,322,375: June 22,1943; assigned to Merck &
Ethinamate | DrugBank Online Ethinamate is a short-acting sedative-hypnotic medication used to treat insomnia. Like many such similar medications, the regular use of ethinamate can result in the development of drug tolerance in a patient. Nevertheless, the medication itself is generally no longer effective after using it for greater than 7 days. Structurally, it does not resemble the barbituates, but it shares many effects with this class of drugs; the depressant effects of ethinamate are, however, generally milder than those of most barbiturates. Used for the short-term treatment of insomnia, however, it generally has been replaced by other sedative-hypnotic agents. Ethinamate is used to treat insomnia (trouble in sleeping). However, it has generally been replaced by other medicines for the treatment of insomnia. If ethinamate is used regularly (for example, every day) to help produce sleep, it is usually not effective for more than 7 days. Structurally, it does not resemble the barbiturates, but it shares many effects with this class of drugs; the depressant effects of ethinamate are, however, generally milder than those of most barbiturates. Continued and inappropriate use of ethinamate can lead to tolerance and physical dependence, with withdrawal symptoms very similar to those of the barbiturates. The mechanism of action is not known. However, studies have shown that ethinamate inhibits carbonic anhydrases I and II (J Biol Chem. 1992 Dec 15;267(35):25044-50). This inhibition by ethinamate is not sufficiently strong, however, to implicate carbonic anhydrases I and II in the mechanism of action. Rapidly absorbed following oral administration. Hepatic. 2.5 hours Symptoms of overdose include shortness of breath or slow or troubled breathing, slow heartbeat, severe weakness, chronic confusion, slurred speech, and staggering. Junkmann, K. and Pfeiffer, H.; US. Patent 2,816,910; December 17, 1957; assigned to
Carphenazine | DrugBank Online Carphenazine is an antipsychotic drug, used in hospitalized patients in the management of chronic schizophrenic psychoses. Used in the treatment of acute or chronic schizophrenic reactions in hospitalized patients. Carphenazine is a phenothiazine antipsychotic agent with a piperazine side-chain. A yellow, powdered, phenothiazine antipsychotic agent used in the treatment of acute or chronic schizophrenia. The term "phenothiazines" is used to describe the largest of the five main classes of neuroleptic antipsychotic drugs. These drugs have antipsychotic and, often, antiemetic properties, although they may also cause severe side effects such as akathisia, tardive dyskinesia and extrapyramidal symptoms. Carphenazine blocks postsynaptic mesolimbic dopaminergic D1 and D2 receptors in the brain; depresses the release of hypothalamic and hypophyseal hormones and is believed to depress the reticular activating system thus affecting basal metabolism, body temperature, wakefulness, vasomotor tone, and emesis. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Tislow, R.F., Bruce, W.F. and Page, J.A.; US. Patent 3,023,146; February 27,1962; assigned to American Home Products Corporation.
Sherlock, M.H. and Sperber, N.; US. Patent 2,985,654; May 23, 1961; assigned to Schering
Hydroxystilbamidine isethionate | DrugBank Online Hydroxystilbamidine isethionate is used in the therapy of some patients with nonprogressive blastomycosis of the skin, and pulmonary or systemic blastomycosis in children, with fewer side effects than amphotericin B. Hydroxystilbamidine isethionate is also used in pathology for diagnostic purposes.
Memantine | DrugBank Online Initially approved by the FDA in 2013, memantine is an N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptor antagonist used in the management of Alzheimer's Disease (AD). It is different from many other Alzheimer's Disease medications, as it works by a different mechanism than the cholinesterase enzyme inhibitors normally employed in the management of Alzheimer's disease 2. Memantine blocks the effects of glutamate, a neurotransmitter in the brain that leads to neuronal excitability and excessive stimulation in Alzheimer's Disease 7. In 2010, it was estimated that 36 million people worldwide live with Alzheimer's Disease. In 2013, this number increased to 44 million. Almost doubling every 20 years, the prevalence of Alzheimer's Disease is predicted to reach 66 million by 2030 and to 115 million by 2050 10. In December 2013, the G8 dementia summit concluded that dementia should be considered a global priority with the objective of developing a cure or a disease-modifying therapy by the year 2025 8,10. Memantine is used to manage moderate to severe Alzheimer's dementia Label.  A more recent systemic review and meta-analysis 6 indicates that memantine is beneficial as a first line drug for the treatment of Alzheimer's dementia. Cholinesterase inhibitors may be added to memantine for further beneficial effects on behavioral symptoms and other symptoms of dementia 6. General effects This drug inhibits calcium influx into cells that is normally caused by chronic NMDA receptor activation by glutamate 3. This leads to the improvement of Alzheimer's dementia symptoms, demonstrated by increased cognition and other beneficial central nervous system effects 3.  Effects on neuroplasticity Like other NMDA receptor antagonists, memantine at high doses can reduce neuronal synaptic plasticity that is involved in learning and memory processes. At lower concentrations, which are normally used in the clinical setting, memantine can enhance neuronal synaptic plasticity in the brain, improve memory, and act as a neuroprotectant against the destruction of neurons caused by excitatory neurotransmitters 2.  Effect on various receptors Memantine has demonstrated minimal activity for GABA, benzodiazepine, dopamine, adrenergic, histamine, and glycine receptors, as well as voltage-dependent Ca2+, Na+ or K+ channels. This drug has shown antagonist activity at the 5HT3 receptors. Laboratory studies suggest that memantine does not affect the reversible inhibition of the acetylcholinesterase normally caused by donepezil, galantamine, or tacrine Label. Continuous activation of the N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors in the central nervous system caused by glutamate is thought to cause some of the Alzheimer's disease symptoms. This overactivation is thought to contribute to neurotoxicity due to the excitatory properties of glutamate 7. The pharmacological effect of memantine likely occurs via the drug's behavior as an uncompetitive (open-channel) NMDA receptor antagonist, preventing glutamate action on this receptor. Memantine has a preference for the NMDA receptor-operated cation channels. Despite these antagonist effects, memantine has not been proven to prevent or retard the neurodegeneration seen in patients diagnosed with Alzheimer’s disease Label. After an oral dose, memantine is well absorbed. Its peak drug concentrations are attained in about 3-7 hours. Memantine shows linear pharmacokinetics when given at normal therapeutic doses. This drug can be taken without regard to food, as there is no effect of food on memantine absorption Label.  The mean volume of distribution of memantine is 9-11 L/kg Label.  The protein binding for memantine is about 45% Label.  This drug is partially metabolized in the liver. The hepatic CYP450 enzyme system does not majorly contribute to the metabolism of this drug Label.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners This drug is mainly excreted in the urine. Approximately 48% of administered memantine is excreted unchanged in urine Label.  The remainder of the drug is metabolized to three main metabolites. These metabolites are the N-glucuronide conjugate, 6-hydroxy memantine, and 1-nitroso-deaminated memantine, which show minimal NMDA receptor antagonist activity Label.  Within the range of 60-100 hours Label. The terminal elimination half-life was significantly increased in patients with moderate to severe renal impairment, in comparison with patients with normal renal function Label. Exercise caution when this drug is administered to patients with renal dysfunction. This drug is cleared by active tubular secretion in the kidneys. Tubular reabsorption of this drug is pH dependent Label.  LD50 Oral LD50, mouse 437-498 mg/kg 11
Echothiophate | DrugBank Online A potent, long-acting irreversible cholinesterase inhibitor used as an ocular hypertensive in the treatment of glaucoma. Occasionally used for accomodative esotropia. For use in the treatment of subacute or chronic angle-closure glaucoma after iridectomy or where surgery is refused or contraindicated. Echothiophate Iodide is a potent, long-acting cholinesterase inhibitor used as a miotic in the treatment of glaucoma. Echothiophate iodide will depress both plasma and erythrocyte cholinesterase levels in most patients after a few weeks of eyedrop therapy. Echothiophate Iodide is a long-acting cholinesterase inhibitor for topical use which enhances the effect of endogenously liberated acetylcholine in iris, ciliary muscle, and other parasympathetically innervated structures of the eye. Echothiophate iodide binds irreversibly to cholinesterase, and is long acting due to the slow rate of hydrolysis by cholinesterase. It causes miosis, increase in facility of outflow of aqueous humor, fall in intraocular pressure, and potentiation of accommodation.  This ophthalmic medication may be systemically absorbed. Side effects include blurred vision or change in near or distant vision and eye pain.
Oxybutynin | DrugBank Online Overactive bladder (OAB) is a common condition negatively impacting the lives of millions of patients worldwide. Due to its urinary symptoms that include nocturia, urgency, and frequency, this condition causes social embarrassment and a poor quality of life.4,5  Oxybutynin, also marketed as Ditropan XL, is an anticholinergic medication used for the relief of overactive bladder symptoms that has been optimized for high levels of safety and efficacy since initial FDA approval in 1975.2,14 This drug relieves undesirable urinary symptoms, increasing the quality of life for patients affected by OAB. It is often used as first-line therapy for OAB.3 Oxybutynin is indicated for the symptomatic treatment of overactive bladder, which causes urge urinary incontinence and frequency, and urgency. Oxybutynin may also be used for children aged 6 and above for the symptomatic management of detrusor muscle overactivity which has been found to be related to a neurological condition. Spina bifida is an example of a neurological condition in which oxybutynin may be used to control urinary symptoms.14 On occasion, oxybutynin may be used off-label to relieve bladder spasms associated with ureteral stents or urinary catheters.12 Oxybutynin exerts antispasmodic actions on the bladder, relieving the uncomfortable symptoms of overactive bladder, including urinary urgency and frequency. These actions occur through the inhibition of muscarinic receptors. A note on angioedema and anticholinergic effects Symptoms of angioedema may occur with oxybutynin therapy. If angioedema is suspected, discontinue oxybutynin immediately and provide appropriate medical treatment.14 In addition, anticholinergic effects may occur with the administration of this drug. Some symptoms may include hallucinations, confusion, agitation, and drowsiness. It is advisable to avoid operating heavy machinery before the response to oxybutynin has been monitored. Dose adjustments may be required.14 Oxybutynin acts to relax the bladder by inhibiting the muscarinic action of acetylcholine on smooth muscle, and not skeletal muscle.14
Isoprenaline | DrugBank Online Isopropyl analog of epinephrine; beta-sympathomimetic that acts on the heart, bronchi, skeletal muscle, alimentary tract, etc. It is used mainly as bronchodilator and heart stimulant. For the treatment of mild or transient episodes of heart block that do not require electric shock or pacemaker therapy also used in management of asthma and chronic bronchitis Isoproterenol is a relatively selective beta2-adrenergic bronchodilator. Isoproterenol is indicated for the relief of bronchospasm associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. The pharmacologic effects of beta adrenergic agonist drugs, including Isoproterenol, are at least in part attributable to stimulation through beta adrenergic receptors of intracellular adenyl cyclase, the enzyme which catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic- 3',5'- adenosine monophosphate (c-AMP). Increased c-AMP levels are associated with relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells, especially from mast cells. The pharmacologic effects of isoproterenol are at least in part attributable to stimulation through beta-adrenergic receptors of intracellular adenyl cyclase, the enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic AMP. Increased cyclic AMP levels are associated with relaxation of bronchial smooth muscle and inhibition of release of mediators of immediate hypersensitivity from cells, especially from mast cells. Excretion following inhalation administration is primarily renal and the major metabolite is the sulfate conjugate of isoproterenol. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. U.S. Patent 2,308,232.
Melatonin | DrugBank Online Melatonin is a biogenic amine that is found in animals, plants and microbes. Aaron B. Lerner of Yale University is credited for naming the hormone and for defining its chemical structure in 1958. In mammals, melatonin is produced by the pineal gland. The pineal gland is small endocrine gland, about the size of a rice grain and shaped like a pine cone (hence the name), that is located in the center of the brain (rostro-dorsal to the superior colliculus) but outside the blood-brain barrier. The secretion of melatonin increases in darkness and decreases during exposure to light, thereby regulating the circadian rhythms of several biological functions, including the sleep-wake cycle. In particular, melatonin regulates the sleep-wake cycle by chemically causing drowsiness and lowering the body temperature. Melatonin is also implicated in the regulation of mood, learning and memory, immune activity, dreaming, fertility and reproduction. Melatonin is also an effective antioxidant. Most of the actions of melatonin are mediated through the binding and activation of melatonin receptors. Individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) may have lower than normal levels of melatonin. A 2008 study found that unaffected parents of individuals with ASD also have lower melatonin levels, and that the deficits were associated with low activity of the ASMT gene, which encodes the last enzyme of melatonin synthesis. Reduced melatonin production has also been proposed as a likely factor in the significantly higher cancer rates in night workers. Used orally for jet lag, insomnia, shift-work disorder, circadian rhythm disorders in the blind (evidence for efficacy), and benzodiazepine and nicotine withdrawal. Evidence indicates that melatonin is likely effective for treating circadian rhythm sleep disorders in blind children and adults. It has received FDA orphan drug status as an oral medication for this use. A number of studies have shown that melatonin may be effective for treating sleep-wake cycle disturbances in children and adolescents with mental retardation, autism, and other central nervous system disorders. It appears to decrease the time to fall asleep in children with developmental disabilities, such as cerebral palsy, autism, and mental retardation. It may also improve secondary insomnia associated with various sleep-wake cycle disturbances. Other possible uses for which there is some evidence for include: benzodiazepine withdrawal, cluster headache, delayed sleep phase syndrome (DSPS), primary insomnia, jet lag, nicotine withdrawal, preoperative anxiety and sedation, prostate cancer, solid tumors (when combined with IL-2 therapy in certain cancers), sunburn prevention (topical use), tardive dyskinesia, thrombocytopenia associated with cancer, chemotherapy and other disorders.  Melatonin is a hormone normally produced in the pineal gland and released into the blood. The essential amino acid L-tryptophan is a precursor in the synthesis of melatonin. It helps regulate sleep-wake cycles or the circadian rhythm. Production of melatonin is stimulated by darkness and inhibited by light. High levels of melatonin induce sleep and so consumption of the drug can be used to combat insomnia and jet lag.
MT1 and MT2 receptors may be a target for the treatment of circadian and non circadian sleep disorders because of their differences in pharmacology and function within the SCN. SCN is responsible for maintaining the 24 hour cycle which regulates many different body functions ranging from sleep to immune functions Melatonin is a derivative of tryptophan. It binds to melatonin receptor type 1A, which then acts on adenylate cylcase and the inhibition of a cAMP signal transduction pathway. Melatonin not only inhibits adenylate cyclase, but it also activates phosphilpase C. This potentiates the release of arachidonate. By binding to melatonin receptors 1 and 2, the downstream signallling cascades have various effects in the body. The melatonin receptors are G protein-coupled receptors and are expressed in various tissues of the body. There are two subtypes of the receptor in humans, melatonin receptor 1 (MT1) and melatonin receptor 2 (MT2). Melatonin and melatonin receptor agonists, on market or in clinical trials, all bind to and activate both receptor types.The binding of the agonists to the receptors has been investigated for over two decades or since 1986. It is somewhat known, but still not fully understood. When melatonin receptor agonists bind to and activate their receptors it causes numerous physiological processes.
MT1 receptors are expressed in many regions of the central nervous system (CNS): suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus (SNC), hippocampus, substantia nigra, cerebellum, central dopaminergic pathways, ventral tegmental area and nucleus accumbens. MT1 is also expressed in the retina, ovary, testis, mammary gland, coronary circulation and aorta, gallbladder, liver, kidney, skin and the immune system. MT2 receptors are expressed mainly in the CNS, also in the lung, cardiac, coronary and aortic tissue, myometrium and granulosa cells, immune cells, duodenum and adipocytes.
Clonazepam | DrugBank Online A benzodiazepine used to treat various seizures, including myotonic or atonic seizures, photosensitive epilepsy, and absence seizures, although tolerance may develop Label 11,12,13,14. The agent has also been indicated for treating panic disorder Label 7,11,12,13,14. The mechanism of action appears to involve the enhancement of gamma-aminobutyric acid receptor responses Label 7,8,11,12,13,14. Since being first patented in 1960 and then released for sale from Roche in the US in 1975 9,10, clonazepam has experienced a storied history in the treatment of the aforementioned medical conditions. Now available as a generic medication, the agent continues to see exceptionally high use as millions of prescriptions are written for the medication internationally every year. Unfortunately, however, like most benzodiazepines, clonazepam use has also been associated with recreational use and drug abuse Label 11,12,13,14. Clonazepam is indicated as monotherapy or as an adjunct in the treatment of Lennox-Gastaut syndrome (petit mal variant), akinetic, and myoclonic seizures Label 13. Furthermore, clonazepam may also be of some value in patients with absence spells (petit mal) who have failed to respond to succinimides Label 13. Additionally, clonazepam is also indicated for the treatment of panic disorder, with or without agoraphobia, as defined in the DSM-V Label. Alternatively, some regional prescribing information note that clonazepam is indicated for all clinical forms of epileptic disease and seizures in adults, especially absence seizures (petit mal) including atypical absence; primary or secondarily generalised tonic-clonic (grand mal), tonic or clonic seizures; partial (focal) seizures with elementary or complex symptomatology; various forms of myoclonic seizures, myoclonus and associated abnormal movements 11,14. Such regional label data also has clonazepam indicated for most types of epilepsy in infants and children, especially absences (petit mal), myoclonic seizures and tonic-clonic fits, whether due to primary generalized epilepsy or to secondary generalization of partial epilepsy 14.  The pharmacodynamic properties of clonazepam are common among benzodiazepines and include anticonvulsive, sedative, muscle relaxing and anxiolytic effects 6,11,12,13. Animal data and electroencephalographic investigations in man have shown that clonazepam rapidly suppresses many types of paroxysmal activity including the spike and wave discharge in absence seizures (petit mal), slow spike wave, generalized spike wave, spikes with temporal or other locations, as well as irregular spikes and waves Label 6,11,12,13. Moreover, the agent can also decrease the frequency, amplitude, duration, and spread of discharge in minor motor seizures Label 12. Generalized EEG abnormalities are more readily suppressed by clonazepam than are focal EEG abnormalities such as focal spikes 11. Clonazepam has beneficial effects in generalized and focal epilepsies 11. Gamma-Aminobutyric acid (GABA) is considered the principal inhibitory neurotransmitter in the human body 6,7,8. When GABA binds to GABA(a) receptors found in neuron synapses, chloride ions are conducted across neuron cell membranes via an ion channel in the receptors 6,7,8,13. With enough chloride ions conducted, the local, associated neuron membrane potentials are hyperpolarized - making it more difficult or less likely for action potentials to fire, ultimately resulting in less excitation of the neurons 6,7,8,13.  Subsequently, benzodiazepines like clonazepam can bind to benzodiazepine receptors that are components of various varieties of GABA(a) receptors 6,7,8,13,11,12. This binding acts to enhance the effects of GABA by increasing GABA affinity for the GABA(a) receptor, which ultimately enhances GABA ligand binding at the receptors 6,7,8,13,11,12. This enhanced ligand binding of the inhibitory neurotransmitter GABA to the receptors increases the aforementioned chloride ion conduction (perhaps reportedly via an increase in the frequency of the chloride channel opening), resulting in a hyperpolarized cell membrane that prevents further excitation of the associated neuron cells 6,7,8,13,11,12. Combined with the notion that such benzodiazepine receptor associated GABA(a) receptors exist both peripherally and in the CNS, this activity consequently facilitates various effects like sedation, hypnosis, skeletal muscle relaxation, anticonvulsant activity, and anxiolytic action 6,7,8,13,11,12. In particular, when out of the ordinary rapid and repetitive electrical signals are released in the CNS, it is proposed that the brain can become over-stimulated and ordinary functions are disrupted - resulting in seizure activity 8. By enhancing the neuro-inhibitory activity of GABA, it is believed that clonazepam can facilitate in decreasing any excessive electrical nerve activity in the CNS that might be contributing to seizures 8. Concurrently, it is also believed that clonazepam's actions in enhancing GABA effects may inhibit neuronal activity proposed to occur in amygdala-centered fear circuits - therefore assisting in the management of anxiety or panic 7. Clonazepam is rapidly and almost entirely absorbed after oral administration as tablets Label 12,14. Peak plasma concentrations of clonazepam administered by the oral route are reached within 1-4 hours and the associated absorption half-life is about 25 minutes Label 12,14. The absolute bioavailability is approximately 90% - but with substantially large differences between individuals Label 12,14.  Clonazepam distributes very rapidly to various organs and body tissues with preferential uptake by brain structures 12,14. The apparent volume of distribution has been documented as approximately 3 L/kg 12,14. The recorded plasma protein binding of clonazepam ranges between 82–86% 12,14. Clonazepam is metabolized principally in the liver 12,14. The metabolic pathways include hydroxylation, reduction of the nitro groups to amine groups, and the addition of acetate to the amino grouping 12,14. In particular, clonazepam is extensively metabolized by reduction to 7-amino-clonazepam and by N-acetylation to 7-acetamido-clonazepam 12,14. Hydroxylation at the C-3 position also occurs 12,14. Hepatic cytochrome P450 3A4 is implicated in the nitroreduction of clonazepam to pharmacologically inactive metabolites 12,14. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Approximately 50-70% of a clonazepam dose is excreted in the urine and 10-30% is excreted in the feces as metabolites 12,14. The excretion of unchanged clonazepam in the urine is typically less than 2% of the administered dose 12,14. Metabolites of clonazepam are present in urine as both free and conjugated (glucuronide and sulfate) compounds 12,14. The mean elimination half-life determined for clonazepam is independent of the dose given and has been documented as being about 30-40 hours 12,14. The documented clearance for clonazepam is approximately 55 ml/min regardless of gender 12. Nevertheless, clearance values normalized by weight decline with increasing body weight 12. Benzodiazepines like clonazepam commonly cause drowsiness, ataxia, dysarthria, and nystagmus. Overdose with clonazepam is generally not life-threatening if the drug is taken alone, but may lead to areflexia, apnea, hypotension, cardiorespiratory depression, and coma. Coma, if it does occur, usually lasts a few hours but it can become more protracted and cyclical, especially in elderly patients. Increased frequency of seizures may occur in patients at supratherapeutic plasma concentrations. Benzodiazepine respiratory depressant effects are more serious when compounded in patients with respiratory disease. An increased risk of congenital malformations associated with the use of benzodiazepine drugs like clonazepam has been suggested in several studies Label 12,14. There may also be non-teratogenic risks associated with the use of benzodiazepines during pregnancy Label 12,14. There have been reports of neonatal flaccidity, respiratory and feeding difficulties, and hypothermia in children born to mothers who have been receiving benzodiazepines late in pregnancy Label 12,14. In addition, children born to mothers receiving benzodiazepines late in pregnancy may be at some risk of experiencing withdrawal symptoms during the postnatal period Label 12,14. In general, it is best for patients who are of childbearing potential and also use benzodiazepines like clonazepam to discuss such matters with their health care professionals as careful consideration must be undertaken regarding the intersection of the risks of untreated seizure potential in the patient and any possible toxicity to the fetus Label 12,14. Although the active ingredient of clonazepam has been found to pass into the maternal milk in small amounts only, mothers receiving clonazepam should not breast-feed their infants Label 12,14. Since the possibility that adverse effects on the physical or mental development of the child could become apparent only after a number of years, the risk-benefit consideration of the long-term use of clonazepam in pediatric patients younger than five years of age is important Label 12,14. The pharmacological effects of benzodiazepines like clonazepam appear to be greater in elderly patients than in younger patients even at similar plasma benzodiazepine concentrations, possibly because of age-related changes in drug-receptor interactions, post-receptor mechanisms, and organ function Label 12,14. In general elderly patients should be started on the lowest possible dose of clonazepam and observed closely Label 12,14. There is an increased risk for falls and fractures among elderly and debilitated benzodiazepine users Label 12,14. The risk is increased in those taking concomitant sedatives, including substances like benzodiazepines, alcoholic beverages, and so on Label 12,14.  Some oral LD50 values documented are >4000 mg/kg for the mouse model, >4000 mg/kg for the adult rat model, and >2000 mg/kg for the rabbit model 12. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Kariss, J. and Newmark, H.L.; US. Patents 3,116,203; December 31, 1963; and 3,123,529; March 3, 1964; both assigned to Hoffmann-LaRoche, Inc.
Keller, O., Steiger, N. and Sternbach, L.H.; U S . Patents 3,121,114; February 11, 1964; and 3,203990; August 31, 1965; both assigned to Hoffmann-LaRoche, Inc.
Dihydrotachysterol | DrugBank Online A vitamin D that can be regarded as a reduction product of vitamin D2. Used for the prevention and treatment of rickets or osteomalacia, and to manage hypocalcemia associated with hypoparathyroidism or pseudohypoparathyroidism. Also used for the treatment of vitamin D dependent rickets, rickets or osteomalacia secondary to long-term high dose anticonvulsant therapy, early renal osteodystrophy, osteoporosis (in conjunction with calcium), and hypophosphatemia associated with Fanconi syndrome (with treatment of acidosis). Dihydrotachysterol is hydroxylated in the liver to 25-hydroxydihydrotachysterol, which is the major circulating active form of the drug. It does not undergo further hydroxylation by the kidney and therefore is the analogue of 1, 25-dihydroxyvitamin D. Dihydrotachysterol is effective in the elevation of serum calcium by stimulating intestinal calcium absorption and mobilizing bone calcium in the absence of parathyroid hormone and of functioning renal tissue. Dihydrotachysterol also increases renal phosphate excretion. Once hydroxylated to 25-hydroxydihydrotachysterol, the modified drug binds to the vitamin D receptor. The bound form of the vitamin D receptor serves as a transcriptional regulator of bone matrix proteins, inducing the expression of osteocalcin and suppressing synthesis of type I collagen. Vitamin D (when bound to the vitamin D receptor)stimulates the expression of a number of proteins involved in transporting calcium from the lumen of the intestine, across the epithelial cells and into blood. This stimulates intestinal calcium absorption and increases renal phosphate excretion. These are functions that are normally carried out by the parathyroid hormone.  >99% Toxicity associated with dihydrotachysterol is similar to that seen with large doses of vitamin D. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. von Werder, F.; U.S. Patent 2,228,491; January 14,1941; assigned to Winthrop Chemical
Diphenhydramine | DrugBank Online Diphenhydramine - perhaps known most commonly as its brand name formulation Benadryl - is a first-generation H1 receptor antihistamine that is used extensively for the treatment of seasonal allergies, insect bites and stings, and rashes 9,10,11,16. However, it also has antiemetic, antitussive, hypnotic, and antiparkinson properties 11,15. As histamine receptors exist both peripherally and in the central nervous system, diphenhydramine has been shown to cause sedation due to its competitive antagonism of histamine H1 receptors within the central nervous system 9,10,11,16,5. While its use in allergy therapy can sometimes fall out of favor due to its sedative effect, diphenhydramine has been repurposed for use within many non-prescription over-the-counter sleep aids and cough-and-cold medications that have been marketed for "night time" use 9,12,13.  Diphenhydramine is also used in combination with 8-chlorotheophylline as the anti-nausea drug Dimenhydrinate where it is utilized primarily for its antagonism of H1 histamine receptors within the vestibular system 4. Diphenhydramine has also been shown to be implicated in a number of neurotransmitter systems that affect behaviour including dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin, acetylcholine, and opioid 3. As a result, diphenhydramine is being investigated for its anxiolytic and anti-depressant properties. Diphenhydramine is a first-generation histamine H1 receptor antagonist (H1 antihistamine) that is widely available as a non-prescription, over-the-counter (OTC) medication. As an OTC medication, diphenhydramine is typically formulated as tablets and creams indicated for use in treating sneezing, runny nose, itchy/watery eyes, itching of nose or throat, insomnia, pruritis, urticaria, insect bites/stings, allergic rashes, and nausea 9,10,11,16,5. Additionally, when the use of oral diphenhydramine is impractical, there are also prescription-only formulations such as diphenhydramine injection products that are effective in adults and pediatric patients (other than premature infants and neonates) for:
i) the amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma, in anaphylaxis as an adjunct to epinephrine and other standard measures after acute allergic reaction symptoms have been controlled, and for other uncomplicated allergic conditions of the immediate type when oral therapy is impossible or contraindicated 15;
ii) the active treatment of motion sickness 15; and
Diphenoxylate | DrugBank Online A meperidine congener used as an antidiarrheal, usually in combination with atropine. At high doses, it acts like morphine. Its unesterified metabolite difenoxin has similar properties and is used similarly. It has little or no analgesic activity. This medication is classified as a Schedule V under the Controlled Substances Act by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the DEA in the United States when used in preparations. When diphenoxylate is used alone, it is classified as a Schedule II. For as adjunctive therapy in the management of diarrhea Diphenoxylate, an antidiarrheal, is effective as adjunctive therapy in the management of diarrhea. Diphenoxylate is rapidly and extensively metabolized in man by ester hydrolysis to diphenoxylic acid (difenoxine), which is biologically active and the major metabolite in the blood. Diphenoxylate is an opiate receptor agonists that stimulate mu receptors in GI to decrease the peristalsis and constrict the sphincters. Diphenoxylate has a direct effect on circular smooth muscle of the bowel, that conceivably results in segmentation and prolongation of gastrointestinal transit time. The clinical antidiarrheal action of diphenoxylate may thus be a consequence of enhanced segmentation that allows increased contact of the intraluminal contents with the intestinal mucosa. 90% 74-95% Hepatic 12-14 hours Coma, dry skin and mucous membranes, enlarged pupils of the eyes, extremely high body temperature, flushing, involuntary eyeball movement, lower than normal muscle tone, pinpoint pupils, rapid heartbeat, restlessness, sluggishness, suppressed breathing Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Janssen, P.A.J.; U.S.Patent 2,898,340; August 4,1959.
Dryden, H.L. Jr. and Erickson, R.A.; U.S. Patent 4,086,234; April 25,1978; assigned to
Streptomycin | DrugBank Online Streptomycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic produced by the soil actinomycete Streptomyces griseus. It acts by binding to the 30S ribosomal subunit of susceptible organisms and disrupting the initiation and elongation steps in protein synthesis. It is bactericidal due to effects that are not fully understood. For the treatment of tuberculosis. May also be used in combination with other drugs to treat tularemia (Francisella tularensis), plague (Yersia pestis), severe M. avium complex, brucellosis, and enterococcal endocarditis (e.g. E. faecalis, E. faecium). Streptomycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic that works by binding to the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit, causing misreading of t-RNA, leaving the bacterium unable to synthesize proteins vital to its growth. Aminoglycosides are useful primarily in infections involving aerobic, Gram-negative bacteria, such as Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter, and Enterobacter. In addition, some mycobacteria, including the bacteria that cause tuberculosis, are susceptible to aminoglycosides. Infections caused by Gram-positive bacteria can also be treated with aminoglycosides, but other types of antibiotics are more potent and less damaging to the host. In the past the aminoglycosides have been used in conjunction with penicillin-related antibiotics in streptococcal infections for their synergistic effects, particularly in endocarditis. Aminoglycosides are mostly ineffective against anaerobic bacteria, fungi and viruses. Aminoglycosides like Streptomycin "irreversibly" bind to specific 30S-subunit proteins and 16S rRNA. Specifically Streptomycin binds to four nucleotides of 16S rRNA and a single amino acid of protein S12. This interferes with decoding site in the vicinity of nucleotide 1400 in 16S rRNA of 30S subunit. This region interacts with the wobble base in the anticodon of tRNA. This leads to interference with the initiation complex, misreading of mRNA so incorrect amino acids are inserted into the polypeptide leading to nonfunctional or toxic peptides and the breakup of polysomes into nonfunctional monosomes. Rapidly absorbed after intramuscular injection with peak serum concentrations attained after 1 - 2 hours. Not absorbed in the GI tract.  Small amounts are excreted in milk, saliva, and sweat. Streptomycin is excreted by glomerular filtration. 5 - 6 hours in adults with normal renal function Nephrotoxic and ototoxic potential. Nephrotoxicity is caused by accumulation of the drug in proximal renal tubular cells, which results in cellular damage. Tubular cells may regenerate despite continued exposure and nephrotoxicity is usually mild and reversible. Streptomycin is the least nephrotoxic of the aminoglycosides owing to the small number of cationic amino groups in its structure. Otoxocity occurs via drug accumulation in the endolymph and perilymph of the inner ear. Accumulation causes irreversible damage to hair cells of the cochlea or summit of the ampullar cristae of the vestibular complex. High frequency hearing loss precedes low frequency hearing loss. Further toxicity may result in retrograde degeneration of the auditory nerve. Vestibular toxicity may result in vertigo, nausea and vomiting, dizziness and loss of balance.
Orlistat | DrugBank Online Orlistat is a drug used in the treatment of obesity. Its primary function is preventing the absorption of fats from the human diet, thereby reducing caloric intake. Orlistat works by inhibiting pancreatic lipase, an enzyme that breaks down triglycerides in the intestine. Without this enzyme, triglycerides from the diet are prevented from being hydrolyzed into absorbable free fatty acids and are excreted undigested. For obesity management including weight loss and weight maintenance when used in conjunction with a reduced-calorie diet. Also used to reduce the risk for weight regain after prior weight loss. Use of orlistat is pending revision due to reports of liver-related adverse events. Orlistat is a lipase inhibitor for obesity management that acts by
inhibiting the absorption of dietary fats. At the recommended
therapeutic dose of 120 mg three times a day, orlistat inhibits
dietary fat absorption by approximately 30%. It works by inhibiting pancreatic lipase, an enzyme that breaks down fat in the intestine. Without this enzyme, fat from the diet is excreted
undigested and not absorbed by the body. Because some vitamins are fat soluble, the effect of orlistat is to reduce their body
Leflunomide | DrugBank Online Leflunomide is a pyrimidine synthesis inhibitor belonging to the DMARD (disease-modifying antirheumatic drug) class of drugs, which are chemically and pharmacologically very heterogeneous. Leflunomide was approved by FDA and in many other countries (e.g., Canada, Europe) in 1999. For the management of the signs and symptoms of active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) to improve physical function and to slow the progression of structural damage associated with the disease. Has also been used for the prevention of acute and chronic rejection in recipients of solid organ trasnplants and is designated by the FDA as an orphan drug for this use. Leflunomide is a pyrimidine synthesis inhibitor indicated in adults for the treatment of active rheumatoid arthritis (RA). RA is an auto-immune disease characterized by high T-cell activity. T cells have two pathways to synthesize pyrimidines: the salvage pathways and the de novo synthesis. At rest, T lymphocytes meet their metabolic requirements by the salvage pathway. Activated lymphocytes need to expand their pyrimidine pool 7- to 8-fold, while the purine pool is expanded only 2- to 3-fold. To meet the need for more pyrimidines, activated T cells use the de novo pathway for pyrimidine synthesis. Therefore, activated T cells, which are dependent on de novo pyrimidine synthesis, will be more affected by leflunomide's inhibition of dihydroorotate dehydrogenase than other cell types that use the salvage pathway of pyrimidine synthesis. Leflunomide is a prodrug that is rapidly and almost completely metabolized following oral administration to its pharmacologically active metabolite, A77 1726. This metabolite is responsible for essentially all of the drug's activity in-vivo. The mechanism of action of leflunomide has not been fully determined, but appears to primarily involve regulation of autoimmune lymphocytes. It has been suggested that leflunomide exerts its immunomodulating effects by preventing the expansion of activated autoimmune lymphocytes via interferences with cell cycle progression. In-vitro data indicates that leflunomide interferes with cell cycle progression by inhibiting dihydroorotate dehydrogenase (a mitochondrial enzyme involved in de novo pyrimidine ribonucleotide uridine monophosphate (rUMP)synthesis) and has antiproliferative activity. Human dihydroorotate dehydrogenase consists of 2 domains: an α/β-barrel domain containing the active site and an α-helical domain that forms a tunnel leading to the active site. A77 1726 binds to the hydrophobic tunnel at a site near the flavin mononucleotide. Inhibition of dihydroorotate dehydrogenase by A77 1726 prevents production of rUMP by the de novo pathway; such inhibition leads to decreased rUMP levels, decreased DNA and RNA synthesis, inhibition of cell proliferation, and G1 cell cycle arrest. It is through this action that leflunomide inhibits autoimmune T-cell proliferation and production of autoantibodies by B cells. Since salvage pathways are expected to sustain cells arrested in the G1 phase, the activity of leflunomide is cytostatic rather than cytotoxic. Other effects that result from reduced rUMP levels include interference with adhesion of activated lymphocytes to the synovial vascular endothelial cells, and increased synthesis of immunosuppressive cytokines such as transforming growth factor-β (TGF-β). Leflunomide is also a tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Tyrosine kinases activate signalling pathways leading to DNA repair, apoptosis and cell proliferation. Inhibition of tyrosine kinases can help to treating cancer by preventing repair of tumor cells.  Well absorbed, peak plasma concentrations appear 6-12 hours after dosing >99.3% Primarily hepatic. Leflunomide is converted to its active form following oral intake. Hover over products below to view reaction partners The active metabolite is eliminated by further metabolism and subsequent renal excretion as well as by direct biliary excretion. In a 28 day study of drug elimination (n=3) using a single dose of radiolabeled compound, approximately 43% of the total radioactivity was eliminated in the urine and 48% was eliminated in the feces. It is not known whether leflunomide is excreted in human milk.
Flucytosine | DrugBank Online A fluorinated cytosine analog that is used as an antifungal agent. For the treatment (in combination with amphotericin B) of serious infections caused by susceptible strains of Candida (septicemia, endocarditis and urinary system infections) and/or Cryptococcus (meningitis and pulmonary infections). Flucytosine is an antimetabolite that acts as an antifungal agent with in vitro and in vivo activity against Candida and Cryptococcus. Flucytosine enters the fungal cell via cytosine permease; thus, flucytosine is metabolized to 5-fluorouracil within fungal organisms. The 5-fluorouracil is extensively incorporated into fungal RNA and inhibits synthesis of both DNA and RNA. The result is unbalanced growth and death of the fungal organism. Antifungal synergism between Ancobon and polyene antibiotics, particularly amphotericin B, has been reported. Although the exact mode of action is unknown, it has been proposed that flucytosine acts directly on fungal organisms by competitive inhibition of purine and pyrimidine uptake and indirectly by intracellular metabolism to 5-fluorouracil. Flucytosine enters the fungal cell via cytosine permease; thus, flucytosine is metabolized to 5-fluorouracil within fungal organisms. The 5-fluorouracil is extensively incorporated into fungal RNA and inhibits synthesis of both DNA and RNA. The result is unbalanced growth and death of the fungal organism. It also appears to be an inhibitor of fungal thymidylate synthase. Rapidly and virtually completely absorbed following oral administration. Bioavailability 78% to 89%. 28-31% Flucytosine is deaminated, possibly by gut bacteria or by the fungal targets, to 5-fluorouracil, the active metabolite. Flucytosine is excreted via the kidneys by means of glomerular filtration without significant tubular reabsorption.
Heparin | DrugBank Online Unfractionated heparin (UH) is a heterogenous preparation of anionic, sulfated glycosaminoglycan polymers with weights ranging from 3000 to 30,000 Da. It is a naturally occurring anticoagulant released from mast cells. It binds reversibly to antithrombin III (ATIII) and greatly accelerates the rate at which ATIII inactivates coagulation enzymes thrombin (factor IIa) and factor Xa. UH is different from low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) in the following ways: the average molecular weight of LMWH is about 4.5 kDa whereas it is 15 kDa for UH; UH requires continuous infusions; activated partial prothrombin time (aPTT) monitoring is required when using UH; and UH has a higher risk of bleeding and higher risk of osteoporosis in long term use. Unfractionated heparin is more specific than LMWH for thrombin. Furthermore, the effects of UH can typically be reversed by using protamine sulfate. Unfractionated heparin is indicated for prophylaxis and treatment of venous thrombosis and its extension, prevention of post-operative deep venous thrombosis and pulmonary embolism and prevention of clotting in arterial and cardiac surgery. In cardiology, it is used to prevent embolisms in patients with atrial fibrillation and as an adjunct antithrombin therapy in patients with unstable angina and/or non-Q wave myocardial infarctions (i.e. non-ST elevated acute coronary artery syndrome) who are on platelet glycoprotein (IIb/IIIa) receptor inhibitors. Additionally, it is used to prevent clotting during dialysis and surgical procedures, maintain the patency of intravenous injection devices and prevent in vitro coagulation of blood transfusions and in blood samples drawn for laboratory values. Unfractionated heparin is a highly acidic mucopolysaccharide formed of equal parts of sulfated D-glucosamine and D-glucuronic acid with sulfaminic bridges. The molecular weight ranges from 3000 to 30,000 daltons. Heparin is obtained from liver, lung, mast cells, and other cells of vertebrates. Heparin is a well-known and commonly used anticoagulant which has antithrombotic properties. Heparin inhibits reactions that lead to the clotting of blood and the formation of fibrin clots both in vitro and in vivo. Small amounts of heparin in combination with antithrombin III, a heparin cofactor,) can inhibit thrombosis by inactivating Factor Xa and thrombin. Once active thrombosis has developed, larger amounts of heparin can inhibit further coagulation by inactivating thrombin and preventing the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin. Heparin also prevents the formation of a stable fibrin clot by inhibiting the activation of the fibrin stabilizing factor. Heparin prolongs several coagulation tests. Of all the coagulation tests, activated partial prothrombin time (aPTT) is the most clinically important value. Under normal circumstances, antithrombin III (ATIII) inactivates thrombin (factor IIa) and factor Xa. This process occurs at a slow rate. Administered heparin binds reversibly to ATIII and leads to almost instantaneous inactivation of factors IIa and Xa The heparin-ATIII complex can also inactivate factors IX, XI, XII and plasmin. The mechanism of action of heparin is ATIII-dependent. It acts mainly by accelerating the rate of the neutralization of certain activated coagulation factors by antithrombin, but other mechanisms may also be involved. The antithrombotic effect of heparin is well correlated to the inhibition of factor Xa. Heparin is not a thrombolytic or fibrinolytic. It prevents progression of existing clots by inhibiting further clotting. The lysis of existing clots relies on endogenous thrombolytics. Heparin must be given parenterally as it is not absorbed through the gastrointestinal mucosa. It is usually given by iv infusion or deep sc injection. The onset of action is immediate after iv injection but can be delayed 20 to 60 minutes following sc injection. Plasma heparin concentrations may be increased and activated partial thromboplastin times (aPTTs) may be more prolonged in geriatric adults (older than 60 years of age) compared with younger adults. 40-70 mL/min (approximately the same as blood volume)
Although heparin does not distribute into adipose tissues, clinicians should use actual body weight in obese patients to account for extra vasculature. Very high, mostly to low-density lipoproteins. It is also extensively bound by globulins and fibrinogens. Liver and the reticulo-endothelial system are the sites of biotransformation. The metabolic fate of heparin is not well understood.  The drug appears to be removed mainly by the reticuloendothelial system. A small fraction of unchanged heparin also appears to be excreted in urine. Heparin cannot be eliminated by hemodialysis. 1.5 hours.  The plasma half-life of heparin increases from about 60 minutes with a 100 unit/kg dose to about 150 minutes with a 400 unit/kg dose.  Adult Clearance = 0.43 ml/kg/min
Chlorpheniramine | DrugBank Online A histamine H1 antagonist used in allergic reactions, hay fever, rhinitis, urticaria, and asthma. It has also been used in veterinary applications. One of the most widely used of the classical antihistaminics, it generally causes less drowsiness and sedation than promethazine. For the treatment of rhinitis, urticaria, allergy, common cold, asthma and hay fever. In allergic reactions an allergen interacts with and cross-links surface IgE antibodies on mast cells and basophils. Once the mast cell-antibody-antigen complex is formed, a complex series of events occurs that eventually leads to cell-degranulation and the release of histamine (and other chemical mediators) from the mast cell or basophil. Once released, histamine can react with local or widespread tissues through histamine receptors. Histamine, acting on H1-receptors, produces pruritis, vasodilatation, hypotension, flushing, headache, tachycardia, and bronchoconstriction. Histamine also increases vascular permeability and potentiates pain. Chlorpheniramine, is a histamine H1 antagonist (or more correctly, an inverse histamine agonist) of the alkylamine class. It competes with histamine for the normal H1-receptor sites on effector cells of the gastrointestinal tract, blood vessels and respiratory tract. It provides effective, temporary relief of sneezing, watery and itchy eyes, and runny nose due to hay fever and other upper respiratory allergies. Chlorpheniramine binds to the histamine H1 receptor. This blocks the action of endogenous histamine, which subsequently leads to temporary relief of the negative symptoms brought on by histamine. Well absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract. 72% Primarily hepatic via Cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes. 21-27 hours Oral LD50 (rat): 306 mg/kg; Oral LD50 (mice): 130 mg/kg; Oral LD50 (guinea pig): 198 mg/kg [Registry of Toxic Effects of Chemical Substances. Ed. D. Sweet, US Dept. of Health & Human Services: Cincinatti, 2010.]
Amiodarone | DrugBank Online Amiodarone is a benzofuran derivative, anti-arrhythmic drug used commonly in a variety of settings.4 Most known for its approved indication in life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, it is also used off-label in the outpatient and inpatient setting for atrial fibrillation. Because of its ability to cause serious toxicity and possibly death, amiodarone use should be reserved for its approved indications, according to prescribing information.18,19,20 The FDA approved indications for amiodarone are recurrent ventricular fibrillation (VF)
and recurrent hemodynamically unstable ventricular tachycardia (VT). The FDA emphasizes that this drug should only be given in these conditions when they are clinically documented and have not responded to normal therapeutic doses of other antiarrhythmic agents, or when other drugs are not tolerated by the patient.18 Off-label indications include atrial fibrillation and supraventricular tachycardia.7,8,9,20 After intravenous administration, amiodarone acts to relax smooth muscles that line vascular walls, decreases peripheral vascular resistance (afterload), and increases the cardiac index by a small amount. Administration by this route also decreases cardiac conduction, preventing and treating arrhythmias.2,7,18 When it is given orally, however, amiodarone does not lead to significant changes in the left ventricular ejection fraction. Similar to other anti-arrhythmic agents, controlled clinical trials do not confirm that oral amiodarone increases survival.18  Amiodarone prolongs the QRS duration and QT interval. In addition, a decreased SA (sinoatrial) node automaticity occurs with a decrease in AV node conduction velocity. Ectopic pacemaker automaticity is also inhibited.19 Thyrotoxicosis or hypothyroidism may also result from the administration of amiodarone, which contains high levels of iodine, and interferes with normal thyroid function.11 Amiodarone is considered a class III anti-arrhythmic drug. It blocks potassium currents that cause repolarization of the heart muscle during the third phase of the cardiac action potential. As a result amiodarone increases the duration of the action potential as well as the effective refractory period for cardiac cells (myocytes). Therefore, cardiac muscle cell excitability is reduced, preventing and treating abnormal heart rhythms.5,10 Unique from other members of the class III anti-arrhythmic drug class, amiodarone also interferes with the functioning of beta-adrenergic receptors, sodium channels, and calcium channels channels. These actions, at times, can lead to undesirable effects, such as hypotension, bradycardia, and Torsades de pointes (TdP).19 In addition to the above, amiodarone may increase activity of peroxisome proliferator-activated receptors, leading to steatogenic changes in the liver or other organs.14,15 Finally, amiodarone has been found to bind to the thyroid receptor due to its iodine content, potentially leading to amiodarone induced hypothyroidism or thyrotoxicosis.11 The Cmax of amiodarone in the plasma is achieved about 3 to 7 hours after administration.18 The general time to onset of action of amiodarone after one dose given by the intravenous route is between 1 and 30 minutes, with therapeutic effects lasting from 1-3 hours. Steady-state concentrations of amiodarone in the plasma ranges between 0.4 to 11.99 μg/ml; it is advisable that steady-state levels are generally maintained between 1.0 and 2.5 μg/ml in patients with arrhythmias.4,5 Interestingly, its onset of action may sometimes begin after 2 to 3 days, but frequently takes 1 to 3 weeks, despite the administration of higher loading doses.18 The bioavailability of amiodarone varies in clinical studies, averaging between 35 and 65%.18 Effect of food In healthy subjects who were given a single 600-mg dose immediately after consuming a meal high in fat, the AUC of amiodarone increased by 2.3 and the Cmax by 3.8 times.18 Food also enhances absorption, reducing the Tmax by about 37%.18  In a pharmacokinetic study of 3 healthy individuals and 3 patients diagnosed with supraventricular tachycardia (SVT), the volume of distribution was found to be 9.26-17.17 L/kg in healthy volunteers and 6.88-21.05 L/kg in the SVT patients.6 Prescribing information mentions that the volume of distribution of amiodarone varies greatly, with a mean distribution of approximately 60 L/kg. It accumulates throughout the body, especially in adipose tissue4 and highly vascular organs including the lung, liver, and spleen. One major metabolite of amiodarone, desethylamiodarone (DEA), is found in even higher proportions in the same tissues as amiodarone.18  The protein binding of amiodarone is about 96%.4,18 This drug is metabolized to the main metabolite desethylamiodarone (DEA)4 by the CYP3A4 and CYP2C8 enzymes. The CYP3A4 enzyme is found in the liver and intestines.18 A hydroxyl metabolite of DEA has been identified in mammals, but its clinical significance is unknown.12 Hover over products below to view reaction partners Amiodarone is eliminated primarily by hepatic metabolism and biliary excretion.4 A small amount of desethylamiodarone (DEA) is found in the urine.18 The terminal half-life of amiodarone varies according to the patient, but is long nonetheless, and ranges from about 9-100 days. The half-life duration varies according to different sources. 3,7 According to the prescribing information for amiodarone, the average apparent plasma terminal elimination half-life of amiodarone is of 58 days (ranging from 15 to 142 days). The terminal half-life range was between 14 to 75 days for the active metabolite, (DEA).18 The plasma half-life of amiodarone after one dose ranges from 3.2 to 79.7 hours, according to one source.4 The clearance of amiodarone after intravenous administration in patients with ventricular fibrillation and ventricular tachycardia ranged from 220 to 440 ml/hr/kg in one clinically study.18 Another study determined that the total body clearance of amiodarone varies from 0.10 to 0.77 L/min after one intravenous dose.4 Renal impairment does not appear to affect the clearance of amiodarone, but hepatic impairment may reduce clearance. Patients with liver cirrhosis exhibited significantly lower Cmax and mean amiodarone concentration for DEA, but not for amiodarone. Severe left ventricular dysfunction prolongs the half-life of DEA.18 A note on monitoring  No guidelines have been developed for adjusting the dose of amiodarone in renal, hepatic, or cardiac abnormalities. In patients on chronic amiodarone treatment, close clinical monitoring is advisable, especially for elderly patients and those with severe left ventricular dysfunction.18 The LD50 of oral amiodarone in mice and rats exceeds 3,000 mg/kg.18
Diazoxide | DrugBank Online A benzothiadiazine derivative that is a peripheral vasodilator used for hypertensive emergencies. It lacks diuretic effect, apparently because it lacks a sulfonamide group. Used parentally to treat hypertensive emergencies. Also used to treat hypoglycemia secondary to insulinoma. Diazoxide is a potassium channel activator. Its mechanism of action revolves around enhancing cell membrane permeability to potassium ions. This action consequently elicits the relaxation of local smooth muscles. This switches off voltage-gated calcium ion channels which inhibits the generation of an action potential. Diazoxide inhibits insulin release from the pancreas, by opening potassium channels in the beta cell membrane.2 Diazoxide is chemically related to thiazide diuretics but does not inhibit carbonic anhydrase and does not have chloriuretic or natriuretic activity.1 It also exhibits hypotensive activity by reducing arteriolar smooth muscle and vascular resistance.1 Readily absorbed following oral administration. Very high (more than 90%) to serum proteins. Hepatic. Proglycem is extensively bound (more than 90%) to serum proteins, and is excreted in the kidneys. 28 ±8.3 hours in normal adults. Oral LD50 in rat and mouse: 980 mg/kg and 444 mg/kg, respectively. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Topliss, J.G., Sperber, N. and Rubin, A.A.; U.S. Patent 2,986,573; May 30, 1961; assigned
to Schering Corporation.
Topliss, J.G., Sperber, N. and Rubin, A.A.; U.S. Patent 3,345,365; October 3, 1967; assigned
Cefapirin | DrugBank Online Cefapirin (INN, also spelled cephapirin), commonly marketed under the trade name Cefadyl, is a first-generation cephalosporin antibiotic that is available in injectable formulations. Production for use in humans has been discontinued in the United States. Cefapirin is partly plasma-bound and is effective against gram-negative and gram-positive organisms. For treatment of infections caused by susceptible bacteria. Cephapirin is a first-generation cephalosporin that has a wide spectrum of activity against gram-positive and gram-negative organisms. Cephapirin is more resistant to beta-lactamases than are the penicillins and so is effective against staphylococci, with the exception of methicillin-resistant staphylococci. The bactericidal activity of cephapirin results from the inhibition of cell wall synthesis via affinity for penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs). Major metabolite detected is desacetylcephapirin. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Rats exposed via the oral route to cephapirin displayed low acute toxicity (LD50 = 14000 mg/kg). The most common adverse reactions are hypersensitivity reactions and alterations to liver function. Evidence of white blood cell disorders and anaemia were noted in some subjects. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Crast, L.B. Jr.; U.S. Patent 3,422,100; January 14, 1969; assigned to Bristol-Myers Company Silvestri, H.H.and Johnson, D.A.; US. Patent 3,503,967; March 31,1970; assigned to Bristol-Myers Company.
Havranek, R.E. and Crast, L.B. Jr.; U.S. Patent 3,578,661; May 11, 1971; assigned to Bristol-
Diphenylpyraline | DrugBank Online Diphenylpyraline is an antihistamine. Antihistamines used in the treatment of allergy act by competing with histamine for H 1-receptor sites on effector cells. Antihistamines prevent, but do not reverse, responses mediated by histamine alone. Antihistamines antagonize, in varying degrees, most of the pharmacological effects of histamine, including urticaria and pruritus. For use in the treatment of allergic rhinitis, hay fever, and allergic skin disorders. Diphenylpyraline is an antihistamine that prevents, but does not reverse, responses mediated by histamine alone. Diphenylpyraline antagonizes most of the pharmacological effects of histamine, including urticaria and pruritus. Also, diphenylpyraline may exhibit anticholinergic actions (as do most of the antihistamines) and may thus provide a drying effect on the nasal mucosa. Antihistamines such as diphenylpyraline used in the treatment of allergy act by competing with histamine for H1-receptor sites on effector cells. This reduces the effects of histamine, leading to a temporary reduction of allergy symptoms. Well absorbed after oral administration. > 99% in human serum albumin Hepatic Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Knox, L.H. and Kapp, R.; U.S. Patent 2,479,843; August 23, 1949; assigned to Nopco
Cloxacillin | DrugBank Online A semi-synthetic antibiotic that is a chlorinated derivative of oxacillin. Used to treat infections caused by penicillinase-producing staphylococci, including pneumococci, group A beta-hemolytic streptococci, and penicillin G-sensitive and penicillin G-resistant staphylococci. Cloxacillin is a semisynthetic antibiotic in the same class as penicillin. Cloxacillin is for use against staphylococci that produce beta-lactamase. By binding to specific penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) located inside the bacterial cell wall, cloxacillin inhibits the third and last stage of bacterial cell wall synthesis. Cell lysis is then mediated by bacterial cell wall autolytic enzymes such as autolysins; it is possible that cloxacillin interferes with an autolysin inhibitor. Well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. 95% Oral LD50 in rat and mouse is 5000 mg/kg. Intravenous LD50 in rat is 1660 mg/kg. Symptoms of overdose include wheezing, tightness in the chest, fever, itching, bad cough, blue skin color, fits, and swelling of face, lips, tongue, or throat. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Doyle, F.P. and Nayler, J.H.C.; British Patent 905,778; September 12, 1962; assigned to Beecham Research Laboratories, Ltd.
Flavoxate | DrugBank Online A drug that has been used in various urinary syndromes and as an antispasmodic. Its therapeutic usefulness and its mechanism of action are not clear. It may have local anesthetic activity and direct relaxing effects on smooth muscle as well as some activity as a muscarinic antagonist. [PubChem] For symptomatic relief of dysuria, urgency, nocturia, suprapubic pain, frequency and incontinence as may occur in cystitis, prostatitis, urethritis, urethrocystitis/urethrotrigonitis. Flavoxate is a spasmolytic flavone derivative that acts by relaxing the smooth muscle in the urinary tract. Flavoxate is a competitive muscarinic receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and urinary frequency. Muscarinic receptors play an important role in several major cholin-ergically mediated functions, including contractions of urinary bladder smooth muscle and stimulation of salivary secretion. Flavoxate acts as a direct antagonist at muscarinic acetylcholine receptors in cholinergically innervated organs. Its anticholinergic-parasympatholytic action reduces the tonus of smooth muscle in the bladder, effectively reducing the number of required voids, urge incontinence episodes, urge severity and improving retention, facilitating increased volume per void. Well absorbed from gastrointestinal tract. 57% of the flavoxate HCl was excreted in the urine within 24 hours. The oral LD50 for flavoxate HCl in rats is 4273 mg/kg. The oral LD50 for flavoxate HCl in mice is 1837 mg/kg. Symptoms of overdose include convulsions, decreased ability to sweat, (warm, red skin, dry mouth, and increased body temperature), hallucinations, increased heart rate and blood pressure, and mental confusion. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Da Re, P.; U.S. Patent 2,921,070; January 12, 1960; assigned to Recordati-Laboratorio
Candicidin | DrugBank Online Candicidin is an antibiotic obtained from a streptomyces (Streptomyces griseus) and active against some fungi of the genus Candida (C. albicans). Candicidin is administered intravaginally in the treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis. Used in the topical treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis. Candicidin is a polyene antifungal antibiotic produced by a strain of Streptomyces griseus. It is especially effective against Candida albicans (more effective than amphotericin B), and is administered intravaginally in the treatment of vulvovaginal candidiasis. Ergosterol, the principal sterol in the fungal cytoplasmic membrane, is the target site of action of Candicidin. Candicidin binds irreversibly to ergosterol, resulting in disruption of membrane integrity and ultimately cell death. There is some evidence that the binding site in the cell wall may be to fatty acids or fatty acid esters and that this binding capacity must be satisfied before candicidin can bring about its lethal effect by binding to sterol in the cell membrane. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Siminoff, P.; U.S. Patent 2,872,373; February 3,1959; assigned to S.B. Penick & Company,
Inc.
Waksman, S.A. and Lechevalier, H.A.; U.S. Patent 2,992,162; July 11,1961; assigned to
Bupropion | DrugBank Online Bupropion (also known as the brand name product Wellbutrin®) is a norepinephrine/dopamine-reuptake inhibitor (NDRI) used most commonly for the management of Major Depressive Disorder (MDD), Seasonal Affective Disorder (SAD), and as an aid for smoking cessation. Bupropion exerts its pharmacological effects by weakly inhibiting the enzymes involved in the uptake of the neurotransmitters norepinephrine and dopamine from the synaptic cleft, therefore prolonging their duration of action within the neuronal synapse and the downstream effects of these neurotransmitters. More specifically, bupropion binds to the norepinephrine transporter (NET) and the dopamine transporter (DAT).8,12 Bupropion was originally classified as an "atypical" antidepressant because it does not exert the same effects as the classical antidepressants such as Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs), Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs), or Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs). While it has comparable effectiveness to typical first-line options for the treatment of depression such as SSRIs,9,10 bupropion is a unique option for the treatment of MDD as it lacks any clinically relevant serotonergic effects, typical of other mood medications, or any effects on histamine or adrenaline receptors.8 Lack of activity at these receptors results in a more tolerable side effect profile; bupropion is less likely to cause sexual side effects, sedation, or weight gain as compared to SSRIs or TCAs, for example.10,11 When used as an aid to smoking cessation, bupropion is thought to confer its anti-craving and anti-withdrawal effects by inhibiting dopamine reuptake, which is thought to be involved in the reward pathways associated with nicotine, and through the antagonism of the nicotinic acetylcholinergic receptor.15,1,14 A Cochrane Review of meta-analyses of available treatment modalities for smoking cessation found that abstinence rates approximately doubled when bupropion was used as compared to placebo, and was found to have similar rates of smoking cessation as nicotine replacement therapy (NRT).13 Bupropion is sometimes used as an add-on agent to first-line treatments of depression such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) medications when there is a treatment-failure or only partial response.7 Bupropion is also used off-label for the management of Attention/Deficit-Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) in adults with comorbid bipolar depression to avoid mood destabilization caused by typical stimulant medications used for the treatment of ADHD.27 When used in combination with naltrexone in the marketed product ContraveⓇ for chronic weight management, the two components are thought to have effects on areas of the brain involved in the regulation of food intake. This includes the hypothalamus, which is involved in appetite regulation, and the mesolimbic dopamine circuit, which is involved in reward pathways.24 Studies have shown that the combined activity of bupropion and naltrexone increase the firing rate of hypothalamic pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons and blockade of opioid receptor-mediated POMC auto-inhibition, which are associated with a reduction in food intake and increased energy expenditure.24,20,22 The combination of naltrexone and bupropion was shown to result in a statistically significant weight loss, with a mean change in body weight of -6.3% compared to -1.3% for placebo.21 Bupropion is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD), seasonal affective disorder (SAD), and as an aid to smoking cessation.  When used in combination with naltrexone as the marketed product ContraveⓇ, bupropion is indicated as an adjunct to a reduced-calorie diet and increased physical activity for chronic weight management in adults with an initial body mass index (BMI) of: 30 kg/m^2 or greater (obese) or 27 kg/m^2 or greater (overweight) in the presence of at least one weight-related comorbid condition (e.g., hypertension, type 2 diabetes mellitus, or dyslipidemia). Bupropion is also used off-label as a first-line treatment in patients with ADHD and comorbid bipolar disorder when used as an adjunct to mood stabilizers.27 Bupropion is chemically unrelated to tricyclic, tetracyclic, selective serotonin re-uptake inhibitors, or other known antidepressant agents. Compared to classical tricyclic antidepressants, Bupropion is a relatively weak inhibitor of the neuronal uptake of norepinephrine and dopamine. In addition, Bupropion does not inhibit monoamine oxidase. Bupropion has been found to be essentially inactive at the serotonin transporter (SERT)(IC50 >10 000 nM),12 however both bupropion and its primary metabolite hydroxybupropion have been found to block the function of cation-selective serotonin type 3A receptors (5-HT3ARs).  Bupropion produces dose-related central nervous system (CNS) stimulant effects in animals, as evidenced by increased locomotor activity, increased rates of responding in various schedule-controlled operant behaviour tasks, and, at high doses, induction of mild stereotyped behaviour Label. Due to these stimulant effects and selective activity at dopamine and norepinephrine receptors, bupropion has been identified as having an abuse potential.Label,17 Bupropion has a similar structure to the controlled substance Cathinone, and has been identified as having mild amphetamine-like activity, particularly when inhaled or injected.17 Bupropion is also known to lower the seizure threshold, making any pre-existing seizure conditions a contraindication to its use. This risk is exacerbated when bupropion is combined with other drugs or substances that lower the seizure threshold, such as cocaine, or in clinical situations that would increase the risk of a seizure such as abrupt alcohol or benzodiazepine withdrawal.Label As norepinephrine has been shown to have anticonvulsant properties, bupropion's inhibitory effects on NET are thought to contribute to its pro-convulsant activity.17 Bupropion has been shown to increase blood pressure and pose a risk for exacerbation of unmanaged or pre-existing hypertension,18,Label however, clinical trials of bupropion in smokers with CVD have not identified an increased incidence of CV events including stroke or heart attack.19 In clinical trials, the mean increase in systolic blood pressure associated with the use of bupropion was found to be 1.3 mmHg.Label Bupropion is a norepinephrine/dopamine-reuptake inhibitor (NDRI) that exerts its pharmacological effects by weakly inhibiting the enzymes involved in the uptake of the neurotransmitters norepinephrine and dopamine from the synaptic cleft, therefore prolonging their duration of action within the neuronal synapse and the downstream effects of these neurotransmitters. More specifically, bupropion binds to the norepinephrine transporter (NET) and the dopamine transporter (DAT).8,12  Bupropion was originally classified as an "atypical" antidepressant because it does not exert the same effects as the classical antidepressants such as Monoamine Oxidase Inhibitors (MAOIs), Tricyclic Antidepressants (TCAs), or Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors (SSRIs). While it has comparable effectiveness to typical first-line options for the treatment of depression such as SSRIs,9,10 bupropion is a unique option for the treatment of MDD as it lacks any clinically relevant serotonergic effects, typical of other mood medications, or any effects on histamine or adrenaline receptors.8 Lack of activity at these receptors results in a more tolerable side effect profile; bupropion is less likely to cause sexual side effects, sedation, or weight gain as compared to SSRIs or TCAs, for example.10,11 When used as an aid to smoking cessation, bupropion is thought to confer its anti-craving and anti-withdrawal effects by inhibiting dopamine reuptake, which is thought to be involved in the reward pathways associated with nicotine, and through the antagonism of the nicotinic acetylcholinergic receptor (AChR), thereby blunting the effects of nicotine.15,1,14 Furthermore, the stimulatory effects produced by bupropion in the central nervous system are similar to nicotine's effects, making low doses of bupropion a suitable option as a nicotine substitute.23  When used in combination with naltrexone in the marketed product ContraveⓇ for chronic weight management, the two components are thought to have effects on areas of the brain involved in the regulation of food intake. This includes the hypothalamus, which is involved in appetite regulation, and the mesolimbic dopamine circuit, which is involved in reward pathways.24 Studies have shown that the combined activity of bupropion and naltrexone increase the firing rate of hypothalamic pro-opiomelanocortin (POMC) neurons and blockade of opioid receptor-mediated POMC auto-inhibition, which are associated with a reduction in food intake and increased energy expenditure.24,20,22 This combination was also found to reduce food intake when injected directly into the ventral tegmental area of the mesolimbic circuit in mice, which is an area associated with the regulation of reward pathways.24 Bupropion is currently available in 3 distinct, but bioequivalent formulations: immediate release (IR), sustained-release (SR), and extended-release (XL).  Immediate Release Formulation
In humans, following oral administration of bupropion hydrochloride tablets, peak plasma bupropion concentrations are usually achieved within 2 hours. IR formulations provide a short duration of action and are therefore generally dosed three times per day.  Sustained Release Formulation
In humans, following oral administration of bupropion hydrochloride sustained-release tablets (SR), peak plasma concentration (Cmax) of bupropion is usually achieved within 3 hours. SR formulations provide a 12-hour extended release of medication and are therefore generally dosed twice per day.  Extended Release Formulation
Bretylium | DrugBank Online Bretylium blocks the release of noradrenaline from the peripheral sympathetic nervous system, and is used in emergency medicine, cardiology, and other specialties for the acute management of ventricular tachycardia and ventricular fibrillation. The primary mode of action for bretylium is thought to be inhibition of voltage-gated K(+) channels. Recent evidence has shown that bretylium may also inhibit the Na,K-ATPase by binding to the extracellular K-site. For use in the prophylaxis and therapy of ventricular fibrillation. Also used in the treatment of life-threatening ventricular arrhythmias, such as ventricular tachycardia, that have failed to respond to adequate doses of a first-line antiarrhythmic agent, such as lidocaine. Bretylium is a bromobenzyl quaternary ammonium compound which selectively accumulates in sympathetic ganglia and their postganglionic adrenergic neurons where it inhibits norepinephrine release by depressing adrenergic nerve terminal excitability. Bretylium also suppresses ventricular fibrillation and ventricular arrhythmias. Bretylium inhibits norepinephrine release by depressing adrenergic nerve terminal excitability. The mechanisms of the antifibrillatory and antiarrhythmic actions of bretylium are not established. In efforts to define these mechanisms, the following electrophysiologic actions of bretylium have been demonstrated in animal experiments: increase in ventricular fibrillation threshold, increase in action potential duration and effective refractory period without changes in heart rate, little effect on the rate of rise or amplitude of the cardiac action potential (Phase 0) or in resting membrane potential (Phase 4) in normal myocardium, decrease in the disparity in action potential duration between normal and infarcted regions, and increase in impulse formation and spontaneous firing rate of pacemaker tissue as well as increase ventricular conduction velocity. No metabolites have been identified following administration in man and laboratory animals. The terminal half-life in four normal volunteers averaged 7.8±0.6 hours (range 6.9-8.1). During hemodialysis, this patient's arterial and venous bretylium concentrations declined rapidly, resulting in a half-life of 13 hours. Oral, mouse: LD50 = 400 mg/kg. In the presence of life-threatening arrhythmias, underdosing with bretylium probably presents a greater risk to the patient than potential overdosage. However, one case of accidental overdose has been reported in which a rapidly injected intravenous bolus of 30 mg/kg was given instead of an intended 10 mg/kg dose during an episode of ventricular tachycardia. Marked hypertension resulted, followed by protracted refractory hypotension. The patient expired 18 hours later in asystole, complicated by renal failure and aspiration pneumonitis. Bretylium serum levels were 8000 ng/mL. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Copp, F.C. and Stephenson, D.; US. Patent 3,038,004; June 5, 1962; assigned to Burroughs
Chloroprocaine | DrugBank Online Chloroprocaine hydrochloride is a local anesthetic given by injection during surgical procedures and labor and delivery. Chloroprocaine, like other local anesthetics, blocks the generation and the conduction of nerve impulses, presumably by increasing the threshold for electrical excitation in the nerve, by slowing the propagation of the nerve impulse and by reducing the rate of rise of the action potential. For the production of local anesthesia by infiltration and peripheral nerve block. They are not to be used for lumbar or caudal epidural anesthesia. Chloroprocaine is an ester type anesthetic agent indicated for production of local or regional anesthesia, particularly for oral surgery. Chloroprocaine (like cocaine) has the advantage of constricting blood vessels which reduces bleeding, unlike other local anesthetics like lidocaine. Chloroprocaine acts mainly by inhibiting sodium influx through voltage gated sodium channels in the neuronal cell membrane of peripheral nerves. When the influx of sodium is interrupted, an action potential cannot arise and signal conduction is thus inhibited. The receptor site is thought to be located at the cytoplasmic (inner) portion of the sodium channel. It is hypothesized that Chloroprocaine binds or antagonizes the function of N-methyl-D-aspartate (NMDA) receptors as well as nicotinic acetylcholine receptors and the serotonin receptor-ion channel complex. The rate of systemic absorption of local anesthetic drugs is dependent upon the total dose and concentration of drug administered, the route of administration, the vascularity of the administration site, and the presence or absence of epinephrine in the anesthetic injection. Chloroprocaine is rapidly metabolized in plasma by hydrolysis of the ester linkage by pseudocholinesterase. Chloroprocaine is rapidly metabolized in plasma by hydrolysis of the ester linkage by pseudocholinesterase. Urinary excretion is affected by urinary perfusion and factors affecting urinary pH. 21 +/- 2 seconds In mice, the intravenous LD50 of chloroprocaine HCl is 97 mg/kg and the subcutaneous LD50 of chloroprocaine HCl is 950 mg/kg. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Marks, H.C. and Rubin, M.I.; US. Patent 2,460,139; January 25,1949; assigned to Wallace
Cilostazol | DrugBank Online Cilostazol is a quinolinone derivative and antiplatelet agent with vasodilating properties that has been used in the symptomatic treatment of intermittent claudication in patients with peripheral ischaemia. It is marketed under the brand name Pletal by Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co.. Cilostazol works by inhibiting both primary and secondary aggregation and reducing calcium-induced contractions. Indicated for the alleviation of symptoms of intermittent claudication (pain in the legs that occurs with walking and disappears with rest). Cilostazol reduces the symptoms of intermittent claudication, as indicated by an increased walking distance. Intermittent claudication is pain in the legs that occurs with walking and disappears with rest. The pain occurs due to reduced blood flow to the legs. Cilostazol and several of its metabolites are cyclic AMP (cAMP) phosphodiesterase III inhibitors (PDE III inhibitors), inhibiting phosphodiesterase activity and suppressing cAMP degradation with a resultant increase in cAMP in platelets and blood vessels, leading to inhibition of platelet aggregation and vasodilation. Cilostazol is absorbed after oral administration. A high fat meal increases absorption, with an approximately 90% increase in Cmax and a 25% increase in AUC. Absolute bioavailability is not known. 95-98% Hepatic. Cilostazol is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P-450 enzymes, mainly 3A4, and, to a lesser extent, 2C19, with metabolites largely excreted in urine. Two metabolites are active, with one metabolite appearing to account for at least 50% of the pharmacologic (PDE III inhibition) activity after administration of cilostazol.  Cilostazol is extensively metabolized by hepatic cytochrome P-450 enzymes, mainly 3A4, and, to a lesser extent, 2C19, with metabolites largely excreted in urine. Cilostazol is eliminated predominately by metabolism and subsequent urinary excretion of metabolites. The primary route of elimination was via the urine (74%), with the remainder excreted in feces (20%). No measurable amount of unchanged cilostazol was excreted in the urine, and less than 2% of the dose was excreted as 3,4-dehydro-cilostazol.
Guanethidine | DrugBank Online An antihypertensive agent that acts by inhibiting selectively transmission in post-ganglionic adrenergic nerves. It is believed to act mainly by preventing the release of norepinephrine at nerve endings and causes depletion of norepinephrine in peripheral sympathetic nerve terminals as well as in tissues. [PubChem] For the treatment of moderate and severe hypertension, either alone or as an adjunct, and for the treatment of renal hypertension. High blood pressure can cause the heart and arteries to not function properly. This can damage the blood vessels of the brain, heart, and kidneys, resulting in a stroke, heart failure, or kidney failure. High blood pressure may also increase the risk of heart attacks. These problems may be less likely to occur if blood pressure is controlled. Guanethidine works by decreasing the heart rate and relaxing the blood vessels so that blood can flow more easily through the body, thereby reducing these risks. It is a postganglionic sympathetic nerve terminal blocker that prevents the release of norepinephrine from nerve terminals. Guanethidine acts at the sympathetic neuroeffector junction by inhibiting or interfering with the release and/or distribution of norepinephrine (NE), rather than acting at the effector cell by inhibiting the association of norepinephrine with its receptors. It is taken up by norepinephrine transporters to be concentrated within the transmitter vesicles in place of NE, leading to gradual depletion of NE stores in the nerve endings. Guanethidine at the nerve terminal blocks the release of noradrenaline in response to an action potential. In contrast to ganglionic blocking agents, Guanethidine suppresses equally the responses mediated by alpha-and beta-adrenergic receptors but does not produce parasympathetic blockade. Since sympathetic blockade results in modest decreases in peripheral resistance and cardiac output, Guanethidine lowers blood pressure in the supine position. It further reduces blood pressure by decreasing the degree of vasoconstriction that normally results from reflex sympathetic nervous activity upon assumption of the upright posture, thus reducing venous return and cardiac output more. 3-30% of oral dose (poor and highly variable) Guanethidine is converted by the liver to three metabolites, which are excreted in the urine. The metabolites are pharmacologically less active than the parent compound. Ismelin is converted by the liver to three metabolites, which are excreted in the urine. 1.5 days Side effects include drowsiness, dizziness, tiredness or confusion. LD50=1000 mg/kg (mouse, oral) Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. U.S. Patent 2,928,829
U.S. Patent 3,006,913
Moclobemide | DrugBank Online A reversible monoamine oxidase inhibitor (MAOI) selective for isoform A (RIMA) used to treat major depressive disorder. Most meta-analyses and most studies indicate that in the acute management of depression, moclobemide is more efficacious than placebo medication and similarly efficacious as tricyclic antidepressants (TCA) or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Due to negligible anticholinergic and antihistaminic actions, moclobemide has been better tolerated than tri- or heterocyclic antidepressants [A3901]. For the treatment of major depressive disorder and bipolar disorder 1. A selective, reversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO) which increases the 1. Besides its presence in sympathetic nerves, there is an abundant evidence that MAO-A is localized in noradrenergic neurons in the locus coeruleus and MAO-B is closely associated with serotonergic neurons of the raphe nucleus 1. The mechanism of action of moclobemide involves the selective, reversible inhibition of MAO-A. This inhibition leads to a decrease in the metabolism and destruction of monoamines in the neurotransmitters. This results in an increase in the monoamines, relieving depressive symptoms 1,2. Well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract (> 95%). The presence of food reduces the rate but not the extent of absorption. Hepatic first-pass metabolism reduces bioavailability to about 56% following administration of one dose, but increases to 90% with steady-state dosing as a result of saturation of the first pass effect. Peak plasma concentrations are reached within 0.3 - 1 hours following oral administration with a terminal half-life of 1.6h 4. 1-1.5 L/Kg 4 Approximately 50% (primarily to albumin) 4 Moclobemide is almost completely metabolized in the liver by Cytochrome P450 2C19 and 2D6.
Kanamycin | DrugBank Online Kanamycin (also known as kanamycin A) is an aminoglycoside bacteriocidal antibiotic, available in oral, intravenous, and intramuscular forms, and used to treat a wide variety of infections. Kanamycin is isolated from the bacterium Streptomyces kanamyceticus and its most commonly used form is kanamycin sulfate. For treatment of infections where one or more of the following are the known or suspected pathogens: E. coli, Proteus species (both indole-positive and indole-negative), E. aerogenes, K. pneumoniae, S. marcescens, and Acinetobacter species. Kanamycin is an aminoglycoside antibiotic. Aminoglycosides work by binding to the bacterial 30S ribosomal subunit, causing misreading of t-RNA, leaving the bacterium unable to synthesize proteins vital to its growth. Aminoglycosides are useful primarily in infections involving aerobic, Gram-negative bacteria, such as Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter, and Enterobacter. In addition, some mycobacteria, including the bacteria that cause tuberculosis, are susceptible to aminoglycosides. Infections caused by Gram-positive bacteria can also be treated with aminoglycosides, but other types of antibiotics are more potent and less damaging to the host. In the past the aminoglycosides have been used in conjunction with penicillin-related antibiotics in streptococcal infections for their synergistic effects, particularly in endocarditis. Aminoglycosides are mostly ineffective against anaerobic bacteria, fungi and viruses. Aminoglycosides like kanamycin "irreversibly" bind to specific 30S-subunit proteins and 16S rRNA. Specifically Kanamycin binds to four nucleotides of 16S rRNA and a single amino acid of protein S12. This interferes with decoding site in the vicinity of nucleotide 1400 in 16S rRNA of 30S subunit. This region interacts with the wobble base in the anticodon of tRNA. This leads to interference with the initiation complex, misreading of mRNA so incorrect amino acids are inserted into the polypeptide leading to nonfunctional or toxic peptides and the breakup of polysomes into nonfunctional monosomes. Kanamycin is rapidly absorbed after intramuscular injection and peak serum levels are generally reached within approximately one hour. Poor oral and topical absorption except with severe skin damage.  2.5 hours Mild and reversible nephrotoxicity may be observed in 5 - 25% of patients. Amikacin accumulates in proximal renal tubular cells. Tubular cell regeneration occurs despite continued drug exposure. Toxicity usually occurs several days following initiation of therapy. May cause irreversible ototoxicity. Otoxocity appears to be correlated to cumulative lifetime exposure. Drug accumulation in the endolymph and perilymph of the inner ear causes irreversible damage to hair cells of the cochlea or summit of ampullar cristae in the vestibular complex. High frequency hearing is lost first with progression leading to loss of low frequency hearing. Further toxicity may lead to retrograde degeneration of the 8th cranial (vestibulocochlear) nerve. Vestibular toxicity may cause vertigo, nausea, vomiting, dizziness and loss of balance.
Cyclizine | DrugBank Online A histamine H1 antagonist given by mouth or parenterally for the control of postoperative and drug-induced vomiting and in motion sickness. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p935) For prevention and treatment of nausea, vomiting, and dizziness associated with motion sickness, and vertigo (dizziness caused by other medical problems). Cyclizine is a piperazine-derivative antihistamine used as an antivertigo/antiemetic agent. Cyclizine is used in the prevention and treatment of nausea, vomiting, and dizziness associated with motion sickness. Additionally, it has been used in the management of vertigo in diseases affecting the vestibular apparatus. Although the mechanism by which cyclizine exerts its antiemetic and antivertigo effects has not been fully elucidated, its central anticholinergic properties are partially responsible. The drug depresses labyrinth excitability and vestibular stimulation, and it may affect the medullary chemoreceptor trigger zone. It also possesses anticholinergic, antihistaminic, central nervous system depressant, and local anesthetic effects. Vomiting (emesis) is essentially a protective mechanism for removing irritant or otherwise harmful substances from the upper GI tract. Emesis or vomiting is controlled by the vomiting centre in the medulla region of the brain, an important part of which is the chemotrigger zone (CTZ). The vomiting centre possesses neurons which are rich in muscarinic cholinergic and histamine containing synapses. These types of neurons are especially involved in transmission from the vestibular apparatus to the vomiting centre. Motion sickness principally involves overstimulation of these pathways due to various sensory stimuli. Hence the action of cyclizine which acts to block the histamine receptors in the vomiting centre and thus reduce activity along these pathways. Furthermore since cyclizine possesses anti-cholinergic properties as well, the muscarinic receptors are similarly blocked. Cyclizine is metabolised to its N-demethylated derivative, norcyclizine, which has little antihistaminic (H1) activity compared to Cyclizine. 20 hours Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Baltzly, R. and Castillo, J.C.; U.S. Patent 2,630,435; March 3,1953; assigned to Burroughs
Naloxone | DrugBank Online Naloxone is an opioid antagonist medication used to block or reverse the effects of opioid drugs, particularly within the setting of drug overdoses which are rapidly becoming a leading cause of death worldwide. More specifically, naloxone has a high affinity for μ-opioid receptors, where it acts as an inverse agonist, causing the rapid removal of any other drugs bound to these receptors. When taken in large quantities, opioid medications such as morphine, hydromorphone, methadone, heroin, or fentanyl are capable of causing life-threatening symptoms such as respiratory depression, reduced heart rate, slurred speech, drowsiness, and constricted pupils. If untreated, this can progress to vomiting, absent pulse and breathing, loss of consciousness, and even death. Naloxone is indicated for the rapid reversal of these symptoms of central nervous system depression in opioid overdose. It's important to note that naloxone only works on opioid receptors within the body, and is therefore not capable of reversing the effects of non-opioid medications such as stimulants like methamphetamine or cocaine, or benzodiazepines like lorazepam or diazepam.  Also known as the brand name product Narcan, naloxone is currently available by intramuscular (IM) or subcutaneous (SubQ) injection, nasal spray, or intravenous (IV) infusion. Naloxone IM injections are commonly available in the form of "kits", which is ideal for making overdose treatment accessible and readily available for administration by minimally trained individuals within the community. Kits commonly include the supplies necessary to treat an overdose in a non-medical setting such as alcohol swabs, syringes, a rescue breathing mask, and instructions for use. Frequently also carried by medical and emergency personnel and at events known to be associated with heavy drug use like music festivals, naloxone kits are considered a key component of harm reduction strategies. When injected intramuscularly (IM), naloxone acts within 3-5 minutes. Administration of naloxone is associated with very few side effects. Notably, if injected into a person not currently using opioid medications, there would be no noticeable effects at all. However, for individuals using opioid medications or experiencing an overdose, IM injection of naloxone rapidly reverses opioid effects and can cause the injected individual to immediately experience withdrawal symptoms. Common symptoms of opioid withdrawal include nausea, vomiting, sweating, runny nose, aches, and diarrhea. Although certainly physically uncomfortable, opioid withdrawal symptoms are not life-threatening; administration of naloxone is therefore appropriate for any person appearing to have any symptoms of an opioid overdose. Due to its short duration of action, persons injected with naloxone should be monitored for responsiveness and potentially injected a second time or taken to the hospital. Naloxone is also available within the combination product Suboxone with the opioid medication buprenorphine. Suboxone is used for the maintenance treatment of opioid dependence and addiction. When taken orally, naloxone has no pharmacological effect and does not reduce the effectiveness of the opioid effect of buprenorphine. The primary purpose of including naloxone within Suboxone is to act as a deterrent to injection, as injected naloxone would rapidly reverse the effects of buprenorphine. For the complete or partial reversal of narcotic depression, including respiratory depression, induced by opioids including natural and synthetic narcotics, propoxyphene, methadone and the narcotic-antagonist analgesics: nalbuphine, pentazocine and butorphanol. It is also indicated for the diagnosis of suspected acute opioid overdose. It may also be used as an adjunctive agent to increase blood pressure in the management of septic shock. Naloxone is an opiate antagonist and prevents or reverses the effects of opioids including respiratory depression, sedation and hypotension. In the absence of narcotics or agonistic effects of other narcotic antagonists, it exhibits essentially no pharmacologic activity.  While the mechanism of action of naloxone is not fully understood, the preponderance of evidence suggests that naloxone antagonizes the opioid effects by competing for the same receptor sites, especially the mu-opioid receptor. Recently, naloxone has been shown to bind all three opioid receptors (mu, kappa and gamma) but the strongest binding is to the mu receptor. Tmax:
0.4mg IM injection = 0.38 hr
Nasal spray (one 2mg spray) = 0.33 hr
Nasal spray (one 4mg spray) = 0.50 hr  Cmax:
0.4mg IM injection = 0.88 ng/mL
Nasal spray (one 2mg spray) = 2.91 ng/mL
Nasal spray (one 4mg spray) = 4.83 ng/mL Following parenteral administration naloxone hydrochloride is rapidly distributed in the body. Naloxone is also very lipophillic and easily crosses the blood-brain-barrier. It can also cross the placenta.  Plasma protein binding occurs but is relatively weak. Plasma albumin is the major binding constituent but significant binding of naloxone also occurs to plasma constituents other than albumin. Naloxone is hepatically metabolized and primarily undergoes glucuronidation to form naloxone-3-glucuronide.  Urine (25%- 40% is excreted as metabolites within 6 hours)  0.4mg IM injection = 1.24 hr
Nasal spray (one 2mg spray) = 1.85 hr
Nasal spray (one 4mg spray) = 2.08 hr LD50, IV administration, mouse = 150 ± 5 mg/kg;
Fluoxymesterone | DrugBank Online An anabolic steroid that has been used in the treatment of male hypogonadism, delayed puberty in males, and in the treatment of breast neoplasms in women. In males, used as replacement therapy in conditions associated with symptoms of deficiency or absence of endogenous testosterone. In females, for palliation of androgenresponsive recurrent mammary cancer in women who are more than one year but less than five years postmenopausal. Fluoxymesterone is a synthetic androgen, or male hormone, similar to testosterone. Fluoxymesterone works by attaching itself to androgen receptors; this causes it to interact with the parts of the cell involved in the making of proteins. It may cause an increase in the synthesis of some proteins or a decrease in the synthesis of others. These proteins have a variety of effects, including blocking the growth of some types of breast cancer cells, stimulating cells that cause male sexual characteristics, and stimulating the production of red blood cells. Fluoxymesterone is a synthetic androgenic anabolic steroid and is approximately 5 times as potent as natural methyltestosterone. Like testosterone and other androgenic hormones, fluoxymesterone binds to the androgen receptor. It produces retention of nitrogen, sodium, potassium, and phosphorus; increases protein anabolism; decreases amino acid catabolism and decreased urinary excretion of calcium. The antitumour activity of fluoxymesterone appears related to reduction or competitive inhibition of prolactin receptors or estrogen receptors or production. Oral absorption is less than 44%. Very high (99%) with 80% to sex hormone binding globulin, 19% to albumin. Presence of 17-alpha alkyl group reduces susceptibility to hepatic enzyme degradation, which slows metabolism and allows oral administration. Inactivation of testosterone occurs primarily in the liver 9.2 hours Side effects include virilization (masculine traits in women), acne, fluid retention, and hypercalcemia. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. U.S. Patent 2,793,218
Ciclopirox | DrugBank Online Ciclopirox olamine (used in preparations called Batrafen, Loprox, Mycoster, Penlac and Stieprox) is a synthetic antifungal agent for topical dermatologic treatment of superficial mycoses. In particular, the agent is especially effective in treating Tinea versicolor. Used as a topical treatment in immunocompetent patients with mild to moderate onychomycosis of fingernails and toenails without lunula involvement, due to Trichophyton rubrum. Ciclopirox is a broad-spectrum antifungal medication that also has antibacterial and anti-inflammatory properties. Its main mode of action is thought to be its high affinity for trivalent cations, which inhibit essential co-factors in enzymes. Ciclopirox exhibits either fungistatic or fungicidal activity in vitro against a broad spectrum of fungal organisms, such as dermatophytes, yeasts, dimorphic fungi, eumycetes, and actinomycetes. In addition to its broad spectrum of action, ciclopirox also exerts antibacterial activity against many Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacteria. Furthermore, the anti-inflammatory effects of ciclopirox have been demonstrated in human polymorphonuclear cells, where ciclopirox has inhibited the synthesis of prostaglandin and leukotriene. Ciclopirox can also exhibit its anti-inflammatory effects by inhibiting the formation of 5-lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase. Unlike antifungals such as itraconazole and terbinafine, which affect sterol synthesis, ciclopirox is thought to act through the chelation of polyvalent metal cations, such as Fe3+ and Al3+. These cations inhibit many enzymes, including cytochromes, thus disrupting cellular activities such as mitochondrial electron transport processes and energy production. Ciclopirox also appears to modify the plasma membrane of fungi, resulting in the disorganization of internal structures. The anti-inflammatory action of ciclopirox is most likely due to inhibition of 5-lipoxygenase and cyclooxygenase.
Estramustine | DrugBank Online A nitrogen mustard linked to estradiol, usually as phosphate; used to treat prostatic neoplasms; also has radiation protective properties. For the palliative treatment of patients with metastatic and/or progressive carcinoma of the prostate Estramustine is an antineoplastic agent indicated in the palliative treatment of patients with metastatic and/or progressive carcinoma of the prostate. Estramustine is a combination of estradiol with nitrogen mustard. In vivo, the nitrogen-mustard moiety becomes active and participates in alkylation of DNA or other cellular components.. This causes DNA damage in rapidly dividing cancerous cells leading to cell death and ideally, tumor shrinkage. Estramustine is a derivative of estradiol with a nitrogen mustard moiety. This gives it alkylating properties. In vivo, the nitrogen mustard component is active and can alklyate DNA and other cellular components (such as tubulin components) of rapidly dividing cells. This causes DNA strandbreaks or misscoding events. This leads to apoptosis and cell death. Also, due to the drugs estrogen component, it can bind more selectively to active estrogen receptors. The metabolic urinary patterns of the estradiol moiety of estramustine phosphate and estradiol itself are very similar, although the metabolites derived from estramustine phosphate are excreted at a slower rate. 20 hours Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Fex, H.J., Hogtierg, K.B., Konyves, I. and Kneip, P.H.0.L; U.S. Patent 3,299,104; Jan. 17,
Ridogrel | DrugBank Online Ridogrel is a dual action drug useful for the prevention of systemic thrombo-embolism and as an adjunctive agent to thrombolytic therapy in acute myocardial infarction. However, there currently are no clinical indications for preferential use of ridogrel over aspirin. Used as an adjunctive therapy to induce thrombolysis in patients suffering acute myocardial infarction. Ridogrel, a combined thromboxane synthase inhibitor and receptor antagonist, is used with streptokinase as an adjunctive therapy to reduce the formation and size of blood clots. Blood clots can cause ischemic cardiac events (heart attacks). Ridogrel has the dual property of inhibiting the synthesis of thromboxane and blocking the receptors of thromboxane/prostaglandin/endoperoxides. It has been shown to accelerate the speed of recanalization and to delay or prevent reocclusion during systemic thrombolysis with tissue plasminogen activator (streptokinase). Ridogrel is a more potent antiplatelet agent than aspirin and might offer an advantage over aspirin as an adjunct to thrombolysis in patients suffering from acute myocardial infarction. While aspirin inhibits cyclooxygenase, the enzyme responsible for producing thromboxane, ridogrel inhibits thromboxane synthesis directly. A recent comparison between aspirin and ridogrel in as adjunct to thrombolysis in patients with acute myocardial infarction demonstrated that ridogrel is not superior to aspirin in enhancing the fibrinolytic efficacy of streptokinase but might be more effective in preventing new ischemic events. Clinical experience with this drug is still relatively limited. Ridogrel inhibits thromboxane A2 synthase and also blocks the thromboxane A2/prostaglandin endoperoxide receptors.
Dantrolene | DrugBank Online Chemically, dantrolene is a hydantoin derivative, but does not exhibit antiepileptic activity like other hydantoin derivates such as phenytoin. For use, along with appropriate supportive measures, for the management of the fulminant hypermetabolism of skeletal muscle characteristic of malignant hyperthermia crises in patients of all ages. Also used preoperatively, and sometimes postoperatively, to prevent or attenuate the development of clinical and laboratory signs of malignant hyperthermia in individuals judged to be malignant hyperthermia susceptible. Dantrolene is classified as a direct-acting skeletal muscle relaxant. It is currently the only specific and effective treatment for malignant hyperthermia. In isolated nerve-muscle preparation, Dantrium has been shown to produce relaxation by affecting the contractile response of the muscle at a site beyond the myoneural junction. In skeletal muscle, Dantrium dissociates excitation-contraction coupling, probably by interfering with the release of Ca2+ from the sarcoplasmic reticulum. In the anesthetic-induced malignant hyperthermia syndrome, evidence points to an intrinsic abnormality of skeletal muscle tissue. In selected humans, it has been postulated that “triggering agents” (e.g.,general anesthetics and depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents) produce a change within the cell which results in an elevated myoplasmic calcium. This elevated myoplasmic calcium activates acute cellular catabolic processes that cascade to the malignant hyperthermia crisis. It is hypothesized that addition of Dantrium to the “triggered” malignant hyperthermic muscle cell reestablishes a normal level of ionized calcium in the myoplasm. Dantrolene depresses excitation-contraction coupling in skeletal muscle by binding to the ryanodine receptor 1, and decreasing intracellular calcium concentration. Ryanodine receptors mediate the release of calcium from the sarcoplasmic reticulum, an essential step in muscle contraction. Bioavailability is 70%. Significant, mostly to albumin. Hepatic, most likely by hepatic microsomal enzymes. Its major metabolites in body fluids are 5-hydroxydantrolene and an acetylamino metabolite of dantrolene. Another metabolite with an unknown structure appears related to the latter. Dantrium may also undergo hydrolysis and subsequent oxidation forming nitrophenylfuroic acid. Hover over products below to view reaction partners The mean biologic half-life after intravenous administration is variable, between 4 to 8 hours under most experimental conditions, while oral is 8.7 hours for a 100mg dose. Oral LD50 in rats is 7400 mg/kg. Symptoms which may occur in case of overdose include, but are not limited to, muscular weakness and alterations in the state of consciousness (e.g., lethargy, coma), vomiting, diarrhea, and crystalluria. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Davis, C.S. and Snyder, H.R. Jr.; US. Patent 3,415,821; December 10, 1968; assigned to
Diphenidol | DrugBank Online Diphenidol is an antiemetic agent used in the treatment of vomiting and vertigo. Diphenidol overdose may result in serious toxicity in children. For use in the prevention and symptomatic treatment of peripheral (labyrinthine) vertigo and associated nausea and vomiting that occur in such conditions as Meniere's disease and surgery of the middle and inner ear. Also for the control of nausea and vomiting associated with postoperative states, malignant neoplasms, labyrinthine disturbances, antineoplastic agent therapy, radiation sickness, and infectious diseases. Diphenidol is used for control of nausea and vomiting. It has an antivertigo effect on the vestibular apparatus, inhibiting the chemoreceptor trigger zone to control nausea and vomiting, thus preventing motion sickness. The mechanism by which diphenidol exerts its antiemetic and antivertigo effects is not precisely known. It is thought to diminish vestibular stimulation and depress labyrinthine function and as an antimuscarinic agent. An action on the medullary chemoreceptive trigger zone may also be involved in the antiemetic effect. Diphenidol has no significant sedative, tranquilizing, or antihistaminic action. It has a weak peripheral anticholinergic effect. Well absorbed from gastrointestinal tract following oral administration. 4 hours Symptoms of overdose include drowsiness (severe); shortness of breath or troubled breathing; unusual tiredness or weakness (severe). Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Miescher, K. and Marxer, A.; U.S. Patent 2,411,664; November 26, 1946; assigned to Ciba
Dexamethasone | DrugBank Online Dexamethasone, or MK-125, is a corticosteroid fluorinated at position 9 used to treat endocrine, rheumatic, collagen, dermatologic, allergic, ophthalmic, gastrointestinal, respiratory, hematologic, neoplastic, edematous, and other conditions.12 Developed in 1957, it is structurally similar to other corticosteroids like hydrocortisone and prednisolone.9 Dexamethasone was granted FDA approval on 30 October 1958.10 In a press release for the Randomized Evaluation of COVID-19 Therapy (RECOVERY) trial on 16 June 2020, dexamethasone was recommended for use in COVID-19 patients with severe respiratory symptoms. Dexamethasone reduced deaths by approximately one third in patients requiring ventilation and by one fifth in those requiring oxygen.21 Dexamethasone and ciprofloxacin otic suspension is indicated for bacterial infections with inflammation in acute otitis media and acute otitis externa.11 Intramuscular and intravenous injections are indicated for a number of endocrine, rheumatic, collagen, dermatologic, allergic, ophthalmic, gastrointestinal, respiratory, hematologic, neoplastic, edematous, and other conditions.12 Oral tablets are indicated for the treatment of multiple myeloma.15 An intravitreal implant is indicated for some forms of macular edema and non-infectious posterior uveitis affecting the posterior of the eye.18 Various ophthalmic formulations are indicated for inflammatory conditions of the eye.13,14,16,17,19,20 Corticosteroids bind to the glucocorticoid receptor, inhibiting pro-inflammatory signals, and promoting anti-inflammatory signals.3 Dexamethasone's duration of action varies depending on the route.11,12,13,14,15,16,17,18,19,20 Corticosteroids have a wide therapeutic window as patients may require doses that are multiples of what the body naturally produces.3 Patients taking corticosteroids should be counselled regarding the risk of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis suppression and increased susceptibility to infections.3 The short term effects of corticosteroids are decreased vasodilation and permeability of capillaries, as well as decreased leukocyte migration to sites of inflammation.3 Corticosteroids binding to the glucocorticoid receptor mediates changes in gene expression that lead to multiple downstream effects over hours to days.3 Glucocorticoids inhibit neutrophil apoptosis and demargination; they inhibit phospholipase A2, which decreases the formation of arachidonic acid derivatives; they inhibit NF-Kappa B and other inflammatory transcription factors; they promote anti-inflammatory genes like interleukin-10.3 Lower doses of corticosteroids provide an anti-inflammatory effect, while higher doses are immunosuppressive.3 High doses of glucocorticoids for an extended period bind to the mineralocorticoid receptor, raising sodium levels and decreasing potassium levels.3 Absorption via the intramuscular route is slower than via the intravenous route.12 A 3mg intramuscular dose reaches a Cmax of 34.6±6.0ng/mL with a Tmax of 2.0±1.2h and an AUC of 113±38ng*h/mL.5 A 1.5mg oral dose reaches a Cmax of 13.9±6.8ng/mL with a Tmax of 2.0±0.5h and an AUC of 331±50ng*h/mL.5 Oral dexamethasone is approximately 70-78% bioavailable in healthy subjects.6 A 1.5mg oral dose of dexamethasone has a volume of distribution of 51.0L, while a 3mg intramuscular dose has a volume of distribution of 96.0L.5 Dexamethasone is approximately 77% protein bound in plasma.15 The majority of protein binding is with serum albumin.[A188559] Dexamethasone does not significantly bind to corticosteroid binding protein.[A188559] Dexamethasone is 6-hydroxylated by CYP3A4 to 6α- and 6β-hydroxydexamethasone.1 Dexamethasone is reversibly metabolized to 11-dehydrodexamethasone by corticosteroid 11-beta-dehydrogenase isozyme 2 and can also be converted back to dexamethasone by Corticosteroid 11-beta-dehydrogenase isozyme 1.7,8 Hover over products below to view reaction partners Corticosteroids are generally eliminated predominantly in the urine.4 However, dexamethasone is <10% elminated in urine.15 The mean terminal half life of a 20mg oral tablet is 4 hours.15 A 1.5mg oral dose of dexamethasone has a half life of 6.6±4.3h, while a 3mg intramuscular dose has a half life of 4.2±1.2h.5 A 20mg oral tablet has a clearance of 15.7L/h.15 A 1.5mg oral dose of dexamethasone has a clearance of 15.6±4.9L/h while a 3.0mg intramuscular dose has a clearance of 9.9±1.4L/h.5 The oral LD50 in female mice was 6.5g/kg and 794mg/kg via the intravenous route.12 Overdoses are not expected with otic formulations.11 Chronic high doses of glucocorticoids can lead to the development of cataract, glaucoma, hypertension, water retention, hyperlipidemia, peptic ulcer, pancreatitis, myopathy, osteoporosis, mood changes, psychosis, dermal atrophy, allergy, acne, hypertrichosis, immune suppression, decreased resistance to infection, moon face, hyperglycemia, hypocalcemia, hypophosphatemia, metabolic acidosis, growth suppression, and secondary adrenal insufficiency.2 Overdose may be treated by adjusting the dose or stopping the corticosteroid as well as initiating symptomatic and supportive treatment.2 Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Fried, J.; US. Patent 2,852.51 1; September 16, 1958; assigned to Olin Mathieson Chemical Corporation.
Chlorprothixene | DrugBank Online Chlorprothixene is a typical antipsychotic drug of the thioxanthene (tricyclic) class. Chlorprothixene exerts strong blocking effects by blocking the 5-HT2 D1, D2, D3, histamine H1, muscarinic and alpha1 adrenergic receptors. For treatment of psychotic disorders (e.g. schizophrenia) and of acute mania occuring as part of bipolar disorders. Chlorprothixene is a typical antipsychotic drug of the thioxanthine class. It has a low antipsychotic potency (half to 2/3 of chlorpromazine). Chlorprothixene has not thoroughly demonstrated an antidepressant or analgesic effect but it has demonstrated antiemetic effects. It is used in the treatment of nervous, mental, and emotional conditions. Improvement in such conditions is thought to result from the effect of the medicine on nerve pathways in specific areas of the brain. Chlorprothixene has a similar side effect profile to chlorpromazine, though allergic side effects and liver damage are less frequent. Chlorprothixene blocks postsynaptic mesolimbic dopaminergic D1 and D2 receptors in the brain; depresses the release of hypothalamic and hypophyseal hormones and is believed to depress the reticular activating system thus affecting basal metabolism, body temperature, wakefulness, vasomotor tone, and emesis. Incomplete bioavailability. Hepatic 8 to 12 hours Symptoms of overdose include difficulty in breathing (severe), dizziness (severe), drowsiness (severe), muscle trembling, jerking, stiffness, or uncontrolled movements (severe), small pupils, unusual excitement, and unusual tiredness or weakness (severe). Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Sprague, J.M. and Engelhardt, E.L.; US. Patent 2,951,082; August 30, 1960; assigned to
Merck & Co., Inc.
Clomipramine | DrugBank Online Clomipramine, the 3-chloro analog of imipramine, is a dibenzazepine-derivative tricyclic antidepressant (TCA). TCAs are structurally similar to phenothiazines. They contain a tricyclic ring system with an alkyl amine substituent on the central ring. In non-depressed individuals, clomipramine does not affect mood or arousal, but may cause sedation. In depressed individuals, clomipramine exerts a positive effect on mood. TCAs are potent inhibitors of serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake. Tertiary amine TCAs, such as clomipramine, are more potent inhibitors of serotonin reuptake than secondary amine TCAs, such as nortriptyline and desipramine. TCAs also down-regulate cerebral cortical β-adrenergic receptors and sensitize post-synaptic serotonergic receptors with chronic use. The antidepressant effects of TCAs are thought to be due to an overall increase in serotonergic neurotransmission. TCAs also block histamine-H1 receptors, α1-adrenergic receptors and muscarinic receptors, which accounts for their sedative, hypotensive and anticholinergic effects (e.g. blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, urinary retention), respectively. See toxicity section below for a complete listing of side effects. Clomipramine may be used to treat obsessive-compulsive disorder and disorders with an obsessive-compulsive component (e.g. depression, schizophrenia, Tourette’s disorder). Unlabeled indications include panic disorder, chronic pain (e.g. central pain, idiopathic pain disorder, tension headache, diabetic peripheral neuropathy, neuropathic pain), cataplexy and associated narcolepsy, autistic disorder, trichotillomania, onchophagia, stuttering, premature ejaculation, and premenstrual syndrome. Clomipramine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and demethylated in the liver to its primary active metabolite, desmethylclomipramine. May be used to treat obsessive-compulsive disorder and disorders with an obsessive-compulsive component (e.g. depression, schizophrenia, Tourette’s disorder).
Unlabeled indications include: depression, panic disorder, chronic pain (e.g. central pain, idiopathic pain disorder, tension headache, diabetic peripheral neuropathy, neuropathic pain), cataplexy and associated narcolepsy (limited evidence), autistic disorder (limited evidence), trichotillomania (limited evidence), onchophagia (limited evidence), stuttering (limited evidence), premature ejaculation, and premenstrual syndrome.  Clomipramine, a tricyclic antidepressant, is the 3-chloro derivative of Imipramine. It was thought that tricyclic antidepressants work exclusively by inhibiting the re-uptake of the neurotransmitters norepinephrine and serotonin by nerve cells. However, this response occurs immediately, yet mood does not lift for around two weeks. It is now thought that changes occur in receptor sensitivity in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. The hippocampus is part of the limbic system, a part of the brain involved in emotions. Presynaptic receptors are affected: α1 and β1 receptors are sensitized, α2 receptors are desensitized (leading to increased noradrenaline production). Tricyclics are also known as effective analgesics for different types of pain, especially neuropathic or neuralgic pain. Clomipramine is a strong, but not completely selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SRI), as the active main metabolite desmethyclomipramine acts preferably as an inhibitor of noradrenaline reuptake. α1-receptor blockage and β-down-regulation have been noted and most likely play a role in the short term effects of clomipramine. A blockade of sodium-channels and NDMA-receptors might, as with other tricyclics, account for its effect in chronic pain, in particular the neuropathic type. Well absorbed from the GI tract following oral administration. Bioavailability is approximately 50% orally due to extensive first-pass metabolism. Bioavailability is not affected by food. Peak plasma concentrations occurred 2-6 hours following oral administration of a single 50 mg dose. The peak plasma concentration ranged from 56 ng/mL to 154 mg/mL (mean, 92 ng/mL). There are large interindividual variations in plasma concentrations occur, partly due to genetic differences in clomipramine metabolism. On average, steady state plasma concentrations are achieved in 1-2 weeks following multiple dose oral administration. Smoking appears to lower the steady-state plasma concentration of clomipramine, but not its active metabolite desmethylclomipramine.  ~ 17 L/kg (range: 9-25 L/kg).
Clomipramine is capable of distributing into the cerebrospinal fluid, the brain, and into breast milk.  Clomipramine is approximately 97-98% bound to plasma proteins, principally to albumin and possibly to α1-acid glycoprotein. Desmethylclomipramine is 97-99% bound to plasma proteins.  Extensively metabolized in the liver. The main active metabolite is desmethylclomipramine, which is formed by N-demethylation of clomipramine via CYP2C19, 3A4 and 1A2. Other metabolites and their glucuronide conjugates are also produced. Other metabolites of clomipramine include 8-hydroxyclomipramine formed via 8-hydroxylation, 2-hydroxyclomipramine formed via 2-hydroxylation, and clomipramine N-oxide formed by N-oxidation. Desmethylclomipramine is further metabolized to 8-hydroxydesmethylclomipramine and didesmethylclomipramine, which are formed by 8-hydroxylation and N-demethylation, respectively. 8-Hydroxyclomipramine and 8-hydroxydesmethylclomipramine are pharmacologically active; however, their clinical contribution remains unknown. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Urine (51-60%) and feces via biliary elimination (24-32%) Following oral administration of a single 150 mg dose of clomipramine, the average elimination half-life of clomipramine was 32 hours (range: 19-37 hours) and of desmethylclomipramine was 69 hours (range: 54-77 hours). Elimination half-life may vary substantially with different doses due to saturable kinetics (i.e. metabolism).  Signs and symptoms vary in severity depending upon factors such as the amount of drug absorbed, the age of the patient, and the time elapsed since drug ingestion. Critical manifestations of overdose include cardiac dysrhythmias, severe hypotension, convulsions, and CNS depression including coma. Changes in the electrocardiogram, particularly in QRS axis or width, are clinically significant indicators of tricyclic toxicity. In U.S. clinical trials, 2 deaths occurred in 12 reported cases of acute overdosage with Anafranil either alone or in combination with other drugs. One death involved a patient suspected of ingesting a dose of 7000 mg. The second death involved a patient suspected of ingesting a dose of 5750 mg.
Side effects include: sedation, hypotension, blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, urinary retention, postural hypotension, tachycardia, hypertension, ECG changes, heart failure, impaired memory and delirium, and precipitation of hypomanic or manic episodes in bipolar depression.
Bepridil | DrugBank Online A long-acting, non selective, calcium channel blocker with significant anti-anginal activity. The drug produces significant coronary vasodilation and modest peripheral effects. It has antihypertensive and selective anti-arrhythmia activities and acts as a calmodulin antagonist. It is no longer marketed in the United States, as it has been implicated in causing ventricular arrhythmias (ie. Torsade de pointes). For the treatment of hypertension, and chronic stable angina (classic effort-associated angina). Bepridil is a calcium channel blocker that has well characterized anti-anginal properties and known but poorly characterized type 1 anti-arrhythmic and anti-hypertensive properties. It is not related chemically to other calcium channel blockers such as diltiazem hydrochloride, nifedipine and verapamil hydrochloride. Bepridil has inhibitory effects on both the slow calcium (L-type) and fast sodium inward currents in myocardial and vascular smooth muscle, interferes with calcium binding to calmodulin, and blocks both voltage and receptor operated calcium channels. Bepridil inhibits the transmembrane influx of calcium ions into cardiac and vascular smooth muscle. This has been demonstrated in isolated myocardial and vascular smooth muscle preparations in which both the slope of the calcium dose response curve and the maximum calcium-induced inotropic response were significantly reduced by bepridil. In cardiac myocytes in vitro, bepridil was shown to be tightly bound to actin. Bepridil regularly reduces heart rate and arterial pressure at rest and at a given level of exercise by dilating peripheral arterioles and reducing total peripheral resistance (afterload) against which the heart works. Rapidly and completely absorbed after oral administration. 99% Hepatic. 24-50 hours There has been one experience with overdosage in which a patient inadvertently took a single dose of 1600 mg of bepridil. The patient was observed for 72 hours in intensive care, but no significant adverse experiences were noted. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Mauvernay, R.Y., Busch, N., Moleyre, J., Monteil, A. and Simond, J.; U.S. Patent 3,962,238;
Docetaxel | DrugBank Online Docetaxel is a clinically well established anti-mitotic chemotherapy medication used mainly for the treatment of breast, ovarian, and non-small cell lung cancer. Docetaxel reversibly binds to tubulin with high affinity in a 1:1 stoichiometric ratio For the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer after failure of prior chemotherapy. Also used as a single agent in the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer after failure of prior platinum-based chemotherapy. It is also used in combination with prednisone, in the treatment of patients with androgen independent (hormone refractory) metastatic prostate cancer. Furthermore, docetaxel has uses in the treatment of gastric adenocarinoma and head and neck cancer.  Docetaxel is a taxoid antineoplastic agent. It promotes the assembly of microtubules from tubulin dimers and stabilizes microtubules by preventing depolymerization. This stability results in the inhibition of the normal dynamic reorganization of the microtubule network that is essential for vital interphase and mitotic cellular functions. In addition, docetaxel induces abnormal arrays or "bundles" of microtubules throughout the cell cycle and multiple asters of microtubules during mitosis. Docetaxel interferes with the normal function of microtubule growth. Whereas drugs like colchicine cause the depolymerization of microtubules in vivo, docetaxel arrests their function by having the opposite effect; it hyper-stabilizes their structure. This destroys the cell's ability to use its cytoskeleton in a flexible manner. Specifically, docetaxel binds to the β-subunit of tubulin. Tubulin is the "building block" of microtubules, and the binding of docetaxel locks these building blocks in place. The resulting microtubule/docetaxel complex does not have the ability to disassemble. This adversely affects cell function because the shortening and lengthening of microtubules (termed dynamic instability) is necessary for their function as a transportation highway for the cell. Chromosomes, for example, rely upon this property of microtubules during mitosis. Further research has indicated that docetaxel induces programmed cell death (apoptosis) in cancer cells by binding to an apoptosis stopping protein called Bcl-2 (B-cell leukemia 2) and thus arresting its function. The pharmacokinetic profile is consistent with a three-compartment model. The area under the curve (AUC) was dose proportional following doses of 70 mg/m2 to 115 mg/m2 with infusion times of 1 to 2 hours. The initial rapid decline represents distribution to the peripheral compartments and the late (terminal) phase is due, in part, to a relatively slow efflux of docetaxel from the peripheral compartment.
Lapatinib | DrugBank Online Lapatinib is an anti-cancer drug developed by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) as a treatment for solid tumours such as breast and lung cancer. It was approved by the FDA on March 13, 2007, for use in patients with advanced metastatic breast cancer in conjunction with the chemotherapy drug Capecitabine. Lapatinib is human epidermal growth factor receptor type 2 (HER2/ERBB2) and epidermal growth factor receptor (HER1/EGFR/ERBB1) tyrosine kinases inhibitor. It binds to the intracellular phosphorylation domain to prevent receptor autophosphorylation upon ligand binding. Indicated in combination with capecitabine for the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer whose tumors overexpress the human epidermal receptor type 2 (HER2) protein and who have received prior therapy including an anthracycline, a taxane, and trastuzuma. Lapatinib is a small molecule and a member of the 4-anilinoquinazoline class of kinase inhibitors. An anti-cancer drug, lapatinib was developed by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) as a treatment for solid tumours such as breast and lung cancer. It was approved by the FDA on March 13, 2007, for use in patients with advanced metastatic breast cancer in conjunction with the chemotherapy drug capecitabine.  Lapatinib is a 4-anilinoquinazoline kinase inhibitor of the intracellular tyrosine kinase domains of both epidermal growth factor receptor (HER1/EGFR/ERBB1) and human epidermal growth factor receptor type 2 (HER2/ERBB2)with a dissociation half-life of ≥300 minutes. Lapatinib inhibits ERBB-driven tumor cell growth in vitro and in various animal models. An additive effect was demonstrated in an in vitro study when lapatinib and 5-florouracil (the active metabolite of capecitabine) were used in combination in the 4 tumor cell lines tested. The growth inhibitory effects of lapatinib were evaluated in trastuzumab-conditioned cell lines. Lapatinib retained significant activity against breast cancer cell lines selected for long-term growth in trastuzumab-containing medium in vitro. These in vitro findings suggest non-cross-resistance between these two agents. Absorption following oral administration of lapatinib is incomplete and variable. Highly bound (>99%) to albumin and alpha-1 acid glycoprotein Lapatinib undergoes extensive metabolism, primarily by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, with minor contributions from CYP2C19 and CYP2C8 to a variety of oxidated metabolites, none of which accounts for more than 14% of the dose recovered in the feces or 10% of lapatinib concentration in plasma. Lapatinib undergoes extensive metabolism, primarily by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, with minor contributions from CYP2C19 and CYP2C8 to a variety of oxidated metabolites, none of which accounts for more than 14% of the dose recovered in the feces or 10% of lapatinib concentration in plasma. Single-dose terminal half life: 14.2 hours
Desonide | DrugBank Online A nonfluorinated corticosteroid anti-inflammatory agent used topically for dermatoses. For the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid responsive dermatose. Desonide is a synthetic nonfluorinated corticosteroid for topical dermatologic use. The corticosteroids constitute a class of primarily synthetic steroids used topically as anti-inflammatory and antipruritic agents. Like other topical corticosteroids, desonide has anti-inflammatory, antipruritic and vasoconstrictive properties. The drug binds to cytosolic glucocorticoid receptors. This complex migrates to the nucleus and binds to genetic elements on the DNA. This activates and represses various genes. However corticosteroids are thought to act by the induction of phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins, collectively called lipocortins. It is postulated that these proteins control the biosynthesis of potent mediators of inflammation such as prostaglandins and leukotrienes by inhibiting the release of their common precursor arachidonic acid. Arachidonic acid is released from membrane phospholipids by phospholipase A2. Topical corticosteroids can be absorbed from normal intact skin, inflammation and/or other disease processes in the skin may increase percutaneous absorption. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Bernstein, S. and Allen, G.R., Jr.; U.S. Patent 2,990,401; June 27, 1961; assigned to
American Cyanamid Company.
Diassi, P.A. and Principe, P.A.; U.S.Patent 3,549,498; December 22, 1970; assigned to
Mecasermin | DrugBank Online Mecasermin contains recombinant-DNA-engineered human insulin-like growth factor-1 (rhIGF-1)Label. IGF-1 consists of 70 amino acids in a single chain with three intramolecular disulfide bridges and a molecular weight of 7649 daltons. The amino acid sequence of the product is identical to that of endogenous human IGF-1. The rhIGF-1 protein is synthesized in bacteria (E. coli) that have been modified by the addition of the gene for human IGF-1. For the long-term treatment of growth failure in pediatric patients with Primary IGFD or with GH gene deletion who have developed neutralizing antibodies to GH 1. It is not indicated to treat Secondary IGFD resulting from GH deficiency, malnutrition, hypothyroidism or other causes; it is not a substitute for GH therapy. Mecasermin is a biosynthetic (recombinant DNA origin) form of human insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) designed to replace natural IGF-1 in pediatric patients who are deficient, promoting normalized statural growth3. Growth hormones (GH) bind to growth hormone receptors (GHR) in the liver and other tissues, which stimulates the synthesis of IGF-1. In target tissues, IGF-1 activates the IGF-1 receptor, resulting in intracellular signals that stimulate growth 2. Although many actions of the GH are mediated through IGF-1, the precise roles of GH and IGF-1 have not been fully elucidated. Patients with severe primary IGF-1 deficiency (Primary IGFD) fail to produce adequate levels of IGF-1, due to disruption of the GH pathway used to promote IGF-1 release (possible GH pathway disruptions include mutations in the GHR, post-GHR signaling pathway, and IGF-1 gene defects).  Mecasermin supplies recombinant-DNA-origin IGF-1, which binds to the Type I IGF-1 receptor. This receptor exerts intra-cellular signaling activity in a number of processes involved in statural growth, including mitogenesis in multiple tissue types, chondrocyte growth and division along cartilage growth plates, and increases in organ growth3.  While the bioavailability of rhIGF-1 after subcutaneous administration in healthy subjects has been reported to be close to 100%, the absolute bioavailability of mecasermin given subcutaneously to subjects with primary insulin-like growth factor-1 deficiency (Primary IGFD) has not been determined8. In blood, IGF-1 is bound to six IGF binding proteins, with > 80% bound as a complex with IGFBP-3 and an acid-labile subunit 8. Information on the metabolism of Mecasermin is not readily available, however it is likely to be metabolized by the liver and kidney like other injectable peptide drugs6. Information on the elimination of Mecasermin is not readily available, however it is likely to be metabolized by the liver and kidney like other injectable peptide drugs6. Mean half life of 5.8 hours 8 Clearance of Mecasermin is inversely proportional to IGF binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3) 8
* Clearance is estimated to be 0.04L/hr/kg at 0.5 micrograms/mL of IGFBP-3
* Clearance is estimated to be 0.01L/hr/kg at 3 micrograms/mL of IGFBP-3 (the median level of IGFBP-3 for patients with normal IGF-1 levels) Overdosage of Mecasermin leads to hypoglycemia8. One case of acute overdose was treated with IV glucose. Long-term overdosage may result in signs and symptoms of acromegaly.
The effects of Mecasermin in human pregnancy has not been studied, however effects on fetal development in animal studies were only seen at doses higher than the maximum recommended human dose based on body surface area.
Abatacept | DrugBank Online Abatacept is a soluble fusion protein, which links the extracellular domain of human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) to the modified Fc (hinge, CH2, and CH3 domains) portion of human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1). Structurally, abatacept is a glycosylated fusion protein with a MALDI-MS molecular weight of 92,300 Da and it is a homodimer of two homologous polypeptide chains of 357 amino acids each. It is produced through recombinant DNA technology in mammalian CHO cells. The drug has activity as a selective co-stimulation modulator with inhibitory activity on T lymphocytes. Although approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, Repligen has entered a slightly different formulation of CTLA4-Ig into clinical trials (RG2077). For the management of the signs and symptoms of moderate-to-severe active rheumatoid arthritis, inducing major clinical response, slowing the progression of structural damage, and improving physical function in adult patients. It is indicated both as a monotherapy and for use in combination with a continued regimen of DMARDs (not including TNF antagonists). Also used for the management of the signs and symptoms of moderately to severely active polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in children. Abatacept is the first in a new class of drugs known as Selective Co-stimulation Modulators. Known as a recombinant fusion protein, the drug consists of the extracellular domain of human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) linked to a modified Fc portion of human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1. The Fc portion of the drug consists of the hinge region, the CH2 domain, and the CH3 domain of IgG1. Although there are multiple pathways and cell types involved in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis, evidence suggests that T-cell activation may play an important role in the immunopathology of the disease. Ordinarily, full T-cell activation requires binding of the T-cell receptor to an antigen-MHC complex on the antigen-presenting cell as well as a co-stimulatory signal provided by the binding of the CD28 protein on the surface of the T-cell with the CD80/86 proteins on the surface of the antigen-presenting cell. CTLA4 is a naturally occurring protein which is expressed on the surface of T-cells some hours or days after full T-cell activation and is capable of binding to CD80/86 on antigen-presenting cells with much greater affinity than CD28. Binding of CTLA4-Ig to CD80/86 provides a negative feedback mechanism which results in T-cell deactivation. Abatacept was developed by Bristol-Myers-Squibb and is licensed in the US for the treatment of Rheumatoid Arthritis in the case of inadequate response to anti-TNF-alpha therapy. Abatacept is a selective costimulation modulator, like CTLA-4, the drug has shown to inhibit T-cell (T lymphocyte) activation by binding to CD80 and CD86, thereby blocking interaction with CD28. Blockade of this interaction has been shown to inhibit the delivery of the second co-stimulatory signal required for optimal activation of T-cells. This results in the inhibition of autoimmune T-Cell activation that has been implcated in the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis. When a single 10 mg/kg intravenous infusion of abatacept is administered in healthy subjects, the peak plasma concentration (Cmax) was 292 mcg/mL. When multiple doses of 10 mg/kg was given to rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients, the Cmax was 295 mcg/mL. The bioavailability of abatacept following subcutaneous administration relative to intravenous administration is 78.6%.  kidney and liver 16.7 (12-23) days in healthy subjects;
13.1 (8-25) days in RA subjects;
Sulfadoxine | DrugBank Online A long acting sulfonamide that is used, usually in combination with other drugs, for respiratory, urinary tract, and malarial infections. Sulfadoxine is used in combination with pyrimethamine for the treatment or prevention of malaria. It can also be used to treat various infections in livestock as well.
Oxtriphylline | DrugBank Online Oxtriphylline is the choline salt form of theophylline. Once in the body, theophylline is released and acts as a phosphodiesterase inhibitor, adenosine receptor blocker, and histone deacetylase activator. Its main physiological reponse is to dilate the bronchioles. As such, oxytriphylline is indicated mainly for asthma, bronchospasm, and COPD (i.e. all the same indications as the other theophyllines). It is marketed under the name Choledyl SA, and several forms of oxytriphylline have been discontinued. In the US, oxtriphylline is no longer available. Used to treat the symptoms of asthma, bronchitis, COPD, and emphysema. Oxtriphylline is a bronchodilator. Oxtriphylline works in several ways: it relaxes muscles in your lungs and chest to allow more air in, decreases the sensitivity of your lungs to allergens and other substances that cause inflammation, and increases the contractions of your diaphragm to draw more air into the lungs. Oxtriphylline is a choline salt of theophylline. After ingestion, theophylline is released from oxytriphylline, and theophylline relaxes the smooth muscle of the bronchial airways and pulmonary blood vessels and reduces airway responsiveness to histamine, methacholine, adenosine, and allergen. Theophylline competitively inhibits type III and type IV phosphodiesterase (PDE), the enzyme responsible for breaking down cyclic AMP in smooth muscle cells, possibly resulting in bronchodilation. Theophylline also binds to the adenosine A2B receptor and blocks adenosine mediated bronchoconstriction. In inflammatory states, theophylline activates histone deacetylase to prevent transcription of inflammatory genes that require the acetylation of histones for transcription to begin. After ingestion, theophylline is released from oxytriphylline in the acidic environment of the stomach.  Theophylline has an apparent volume of distribution of 0.3–0.7 L/kg in children and adults, and the Vd is about twice that of an adult in premature infants. With a serum concentrations of 17 mcg/mL, adults and children have about 56% theophylline bound to plasma protein, and premature infants have about 36%. Theophylline undergoes hepatic metabolism to 1,3-dimethyluric acid, 1-methyluric acid, and 3-methylxanthine. The kidneys are the main route of elimination for both theophylline and its metabolites, but some unchanged theophylline is eliminated in the feces. The serum half life varies greatly between patients and in age. The half life range for a healthy, nonsmoking adult is 3-12.8 hours, for children is 1.5–9.5 hours, and for for premature infants is 15–58 hours. Theophylline has an average clearance in children (over 6 months) of 1.45 mL/kg per minute, and in healthy, nonsmoking adults of 0.65 mL/kg per hour. Symptoms of toxicity include abdominal pain (continuing or severe), confusion or change in behavior, convulsions (seizures), dark or bloody vomit, diarrhea, dizziness or lightheadedness, fast and/or irregular heartbeat, nervousness or restlessness (continuing), and trembling (continuing). Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Ladenburg, K., Duesel, B.F. and Fand,T.I.; U S . Patent 2,776,287; January 1,1957; assigned
Insulin detemir | DrugBank Online Insulin detemir is a long-acting form of insulin used for the treatment of hyperglycemia caused by Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes. Insulin is typically prescribed for the management of diabetes mellitus to mimic the activity of endogenously produced human insulin, a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas that promotes glucose metabolism. Insulin is released from the pancreas following a meal to promote the uptake of glucose from the blood into internal organs and tissues such as the liver, fat cells, and skeletal muscle. Absorption of glucose into cells allows for its transformation into glycogen or fat for storage. Insulin also inhibits hepatic glucose production, enhances protein synthesis, and inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis among many other functions. Insulin is an important treatment in the management of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) which is caused by an autoimmune reaction that destroys the beta cells of the pancreas, resulting in the body not being able to produce or synthesize the insulin needed to manage circulating blood sugar levels. As a result, people with T1D rely primarily on exogenous forms of insulin, such as insulin detemir, to lower glucose levels in the blood. Insulin is also used in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), another form of diabetes mellitus that is a slowly progressing metabolic disorder caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors that promote chronically elevated blood sugar levels. Without treatment or improvement in non-pharmacological measures such as diet and exercise to lower blood glucose, high blood sugar eventually causes cellular resistance to endogenous insulin, and in the long term, damage to pancreatic islet cells. Insulin is typically prescribed later in the course of T2D, after several oral medications such as Metformin, Gliclazide, or Sitagliptin have been tried, when sufficient damage has been caused to pancreatic cells that the body is no longer able to produce insulin on its own.  Marketed as the brand name product Levemir, insulin detemir has a duration of action of 16-24 hours allowing for once-daily dosing, typically at bedtime. Due to its duration of action, Levemir is considered "basal insulin" as it provides low concentrations of background insulin that can keep blood sugar stable between meals or overnight. Basal insulin is often combined with short-acting "bolus insulin" such as Insulin lispro, Insulin glulisine, and Insulin aspart to provide higher doses of insulin required following meals. Use of basal and bolus insulin together is intended to mimic the pancreas' production of endogenous insulin, with a goal of avoiding any periods of hypoglycemia. Insulin detemir is produced using recombinant DNA technology in yeast cells. This insulin analogue has a 14-C fatty acid, myristic acid, bound to the lysine amino acid at position B29. The myristoyl side chain increases self-association and albumin binding. This along with slow systemic absorption from the injection site prolongs distribution of the hormone into tissues and results in a long duration of action.  Without an adequate supply of insulin to promote absorption of glucose from the bloodstream, blood sugar levels can climb to dangerously high levels and can result in symptoms such as fatigue, headache, blurred vision, and increased thirst. If left untreated, the body starts to break down fat, instead of glucose, for energy which results in a build-up of ketone acids in the blood and a syndrome called ketoacidosis, which is a life-threatening medical emergency. In the long term, elevated blood sugar levels increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, and diabetic neuropathy. Insulin detemir is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and children with diabetes mellitus. Insulin is a natural hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas. In non-diabetic individuals, the pancreas produces a continuous supply of low levels of basal insulin along with spikes of insulin following meals. Increased insulin secretion following meals is responsible for the metabolic changes that occur as the body transitions from a postabsorptive to absorptive state. Insulin promotes cellular uptake of glucose, particularly in muscle and adipose tissues, promotes energy storage via glycogenesis, opposes catabolism of energy stores, increases DNA replication and protein synthesis by stimulating amino acid uptake by the liver, muscle and adipose tissue, and modifies the activity of numerous enzymes involved in glycogen synthesis and glycolysis. Insulin also promotes growth and is required for the actions of growth hormone (e.g. protein synthesis, cell division, DNA synthesis). Insulin detemir is a long-acting insulin analogue with a flat and predictable action profile. It is used to mimic the basal levels of insulin in diabetic individuals. The onset of action of insulin detemir is 1 to 2 hours and its duration of action is up to 24 hours. Interestingly, it has a lower affinity (30%) for the insulin receptor than human insulin. Insulin detemir binds to the insulin receptor (IR), a heterotetrameric protein consisting of two extracellular alpha units and two transmembrane beta units. The binding of insulin to the alpha subunit of IR stimulates the tyrosine kinase activity intrinsic to the beta subunit of the receptor. The bound receptor autophosphorylates and phosphorylates numerous intracellular substrates such as insulin receptor substrates (IRS) proteins, Cbl, APS, Shc and Gab 1. Activation of these proteins leads to the activation of downstream signalling molecules including PI3 kinase and Akt. Akt regulates the activity of glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) and protein kinase C (PKC), both of which play critical roles in metabolism and catabolism.
Insulin detemir’s long duration of action appears to be a result of slow systemic absorption from the injection site and delayed distribution to target tissues. The myristic acid side chain on insulin detemir increases self-association and gives it a high binding affinity to serum albumin. These features slow its distribution into target tissues and prolong its duration of action.  Maximum serum concentrations are reached 6 to 8 hours following subcutaneous injection. The duration of action of insulin detemir is mediated by slowed systemic absorption of insulin detemir molecules from the injection site due to self-association of the drug molecule. When single dose of 0.5 units/kg of insulin detemir was given to adult type 1 diabetes patients, the maximum serum concentration (Cmax) was 4,641 ± 2,299 pmol/L.
Insulin detemir has a slow and prolonged absorption and a relatively constant concentration/time profile over 24 hours with no pronounced peak. The median time to maximum serum insulin concentration was 12 hours after injection. On average, serum insulin concentrations declined to baseline by approximately 24 hours.
Insulin lispro | DrugBank Online Insulin lispro is a rapid-acting form of insulin used for the treatment of hyperglycemia caused by Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes. Insulin is prescribed for the management of diabetes mellitus to mimic the activity of endogenously produced human insulin, a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas that promotes glucose metabolism. Insulin is released from the pancreas following a meal to promote the uptake of glucose from the blood into internal organs and tissues such as the liver, fat cells, and skeletal muscle. Absorption of glucose into cells allows for its transformation into glycogen or fat for storage. Insulin also inhibits hepatic glucose production, enhances protein synthesis, and inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis among many other functions. Insulin is an important treatment in the management of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) which is caused by an autoimmune reaction that destroys the beta cells of the pancreas, resulting in the body not being able to produce the insulin needed to manage circulating blood sugar levels. As a result, people with T1D rely primarily on exogenous forms of insulin, such as insulin lispro, to lower glucose levels in the blood. Insulin is also used in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), another form of diabetes mellitus that is a slowly progressing metabolic disorder caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors that promote chronically elevated blood sugar levels. Without treatment or improvement in non-pharmacological measures such as diet and exercise to lower blood glucose, high blood sugar eventually cause cellular resistance to endogenous insulin, and in the long term, damage to pancreatic islet cells. Insulin is typically prescribed later in the course of T2D, after several oral medications such as Metformin, Gliclazide, or Sitagliptin have been tried, and when sufficient damage has been caused to pancreatic cells that the body is no longer able to produce insulin on its own.  Marketed as the brand name product Humalog, insulin lispro begins to exert its effects within 15 minutes of subcutaneous administration, while peak levels occur 30 to 90 minutes after administration. Due to its duration of action of around 5 hours, Humalog is considered "bolus insulin" as it provides high levels of insulin in a short period of time to mimic the release of endogenous insulin from the pancreas after meals. Bolus insulin is often combined with once daily, long-acting "basal insulin" such as Insulin detemir, Insulin degludec, or Insulin glargine to provide low concentrations of background insulin that can keep blood sugar stable between meals or overnight. Use of basal and bolus insulin together is intended to mimic the pancreas' production of endogenous insulin, with a goal of avoiding any periods of hypoglycemia. Insulin lispro is produced by recombinant DNA technology utilizing a non-pathogenic laboratory strain of Escherichia coli and was the first commercially available insulin analog. Formerly called LYSPRO from the chemical nomenclature [LYS(B28), PRO(B29)], insulin lispro differs from human insulin in that the amino acid proline at position B28 is replaced by lysine and the lysine in position B29 is replaced by proline. These biochemical changes result in a reduced tendency for self-association resulting in dissolution to a dimer and then to a monomer that is absorbed more rapidly after subcutaneous injection compared to endogenous human insulin.  Without an adequate supply of insulin to promote absorption of glucose from the bloodstream, blood sugar levels can climb to dangerously high levels and can result in symptoms such as fatigue, headache, blurred vision, and increased thirst. If left untreated, the body starts to break down fat, instead of glucose, for energy which results in a build-up of ketone acids in the blood and a syndrome called ketoacidosis, which is a life-threatening medical emergency. In the long term, elevated blood sugar levels increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, and diabetic neuropathy. Insulin lispro is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and children with diabetes mellitus.  Insulin is a natural hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas. In non-diabetic individuals, a basal level of insulin is supplemented with insulin spikes following meals. Increased insulin secretion following meals is responsible for the metabolic changes that occur as the body transitions from a postabsorptive to absorptive state. Insulin promotes cellular uptake of glucose, particularly in muscle and adipose tissues, promotes energy storage via glycogenesis, opposes catabolism of energy stores, increases DNA replication and protein synthesis by stimulating amino acid uptake by liver, muscle and adipose tissue, and modifies the activity of numerous enzymes involved in glycogen synthesis and glycolysis. Insulin also promotes growth and is required for the actions of growth hormone (e.g. protein synthesis, cell division, DNA synthesis). Insulin lispro is a rapid-acting insulin analogue used to mimic postprandial insulin spikes in diabetic individuals. The onset of action of insulin lispro is 10-15 minutes. Its activity peaks 60 minutes following subcutaneous injection and its duration of action is 4-5 hours. Compared to regular human insulin, insulin lispro has a more rapid onset of action and a shorter duration of action. Insulin lispro is also shown to be equipotent to human insulin on a molar basis.  Insulin lispro binds to the insulin receptor (IR), a heterotetrameric protein consisting of two extracellular alpha units and two transmembrane beta units. The binding of insulin to the alpha subunit of IR stimulates the tyrosine kinase activity intrinsic to the beta subunit of the receptor. The bound receptor autophosphorylates and phosphorylates numerous intracellular substrates such as insulin receptor substrates (IRS) proteins, Cbl, APS, Shc and Gab 1. Activation of these proteins leads to the activation of downstream signaling molecules including PI3 kinase and Akt. Akt regulates the activity of glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) and protein kinase C (PKC), both of which play critical roles in metabolism and catabolism. In humans, insulin is stored in the form of hexamers; however, only insulin monomers are able to interact with IR. Reversal of the proline and lysine residues at positions B28 and B29 of native insulin eliminates hydrophobic interactions and weakens some of the hydrogen bonds that contribute to the stability of the insulin dimers that comprise insulin hexamers. Hexamers of insulin lispro are produced in the presence of zinc and m-cresol. These weakly associated hexamers quickly dissociate upon subcutaneous injection and are absorbed as monomers through vascular endothelial cells. These properties give insulin lispro its fast-acting properties.  Insulin lispro is rapidly absorbed following subcutaneous administration. It is also absorbed more quickly than regular human insulin. Peak serum levels occur 30-90 minutes after injection in healthy subjects. Absorption also differs depending on the site of injection. After insulin lispro was administered in the abdomen, serum drug levels were higher and the duration of action was slightly shorter than after deltoid or thigh administration. The absolute bioavailability after subcutaneous injection ranges from 55% to 77% with doses between 0.1 to 0.2 unit/kg, inclusive.
Cilazapril | DrugBank Online Cilazapril is an ACE inhibtor class drug used in the treatment of hypertension and heart failure. It belongs to the angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE inhibitors) class of drugs. It is a prodrug that is hydrolyzed after absorption to its main metabolite cilazaprilat. It is branded as Inhibace in Canada and other countries, Vascace and Dynorm in a number of European countries, among many other names. None of these varieties are available in the United States. Cilazapril is an ACE inhibtor class drug used in the treatment of hypertension and heart failure. Cilazapril inhibits the production angiotensin II. By doing so, it decreases sodium and water reabsorption (via aldosterone) and it decreases vasoconstriction. The combined effect of this is a decrease in vascular resistance, and therefore, blood pressure. The absolute bioavailability of cilazaprilat after oral administration of cilazapril is 57% based on urinary recovery data. (The absolute bioavailability of cilazaprilat after oral administration of cilazaprilat is 19%.) Ingestion of food immediately before the administration of cilazapril reduces the average peak plasma concentration of cilazaprilat by 29%, delays the peak by one hour and reduces the bioavailability of cilazaprilat by 14%. These pharmacokinetic changes have little influence on plasma ACE inhibition.  Cilazapril is a pyridazine ACE inhibitor. It competes with angiotensin I for binding at the angiotensin-converting enzyme, blocking the conversion of angiotensin I to angiotensin II. As angiotensin II is a vasoconstrictor and a negative feedback mediator for renin activity, lower angiotensin II levels results in a decrease in blood pressure, an increase in renin activity, and stimulation of baroreceptor reflex mechanisms. Kininase II, an enzyme which degrades the vasodilator bradykinin, is identical to ACE and may also be inhibited. Maximum plasma concentrations of cilazaprilat are reached within two hours after
Penbutolol | DrugBank Online Penbutolol is a drug in the beta-blocker class used to treat hypertension. Penbutolol binds both beta-1 and beta-2 adrenergic receptors, rendering it a non-selective beta-blocker. Penbutolol can act as a partial agonist at beta adrenergic receptors, since it is a sympathomimetric drug. Penbutolol also demonstrates high binding affinity to the 5-hydroxytryptamine receptor 1A with antagonistic effects. This binding characteristic of penbutolol is being investigated for its implications in Antidepressant Therapy. Penbutolol is contraindicated in patients with cardiogenic shock, sinus bradycardia, second and third degree atrioventricular conduction block, bronchial asthma, and those with known hypersensitivity. Penbutolol is indicated in the treatment of mild to moderate arterial hypertension. It may be used alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, especially thiazide-type diuretics.Penbutolol is contraindicated in patients with cardiogenic shock, sinus bradycardia, second and third degree atrioventricular conduction block, bronchial asthma, and those with known hypersensitivity. Penbutolol is a ß-1, ß-2 (nonselective) adrenergic receptor antagonist. Experimental studies showed a dose-dependent increase in heart rate in reserpinized (norepinephrine-depleted) rats given penbutolol intravenously at doses of 0.25 to 1.0 mg/kg, suggesting that penbutolol has some intrinsic sympathomimetic activity. In human studies, however, heart rate decreases have been similar to those seen with propranolol. Penbutolol acts on the β1 adrenergic receptors in both the heart and the kidney. When β1 receptors are activated by catecholamines, they stimulate a coupled G protein that leads to the conversion of adenosine triphosphate (ATP) to cyclic adenosine monophosphate (cAMP). The increase in cAMP leads to activation of protein kinase A (PKA), which alters the movement of calcium ions in heart muscle and increases the heart rate. Penbutolol blocks the catecholamine activation of β1 adrenergic receptors and decreases heart rate, which lowers blood pressure. >90%. 80-98% bound to plasma proteins. Extensively bound to Alpha-1-acid glycoprotein 1.  Metabolized in the liver by hydroxylation and glucuroconjugation forming a glucuronide metabolite and a semi-active 4-hydroxy metabolite.  The metabolites are excreted principally in the urine. Plasma= approximately 5h
Quinupristin | DrugBank Online Quinupristin/dalfopristin is a combination of two antibiotics used to treat infections by staphylococci and by vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium. Dalfopristin inhibits the early phase of protein synthesis in the bacterial ribosome and quinupristin inhibits the late phase of protein synthesis. The combination of the two components acts synergistically and is more effective in vitro than each component alone. For the treatment of bacterial infections (usually in combination with dalfopristin). Quinupristin is a streptogramin antibiotic, derived from pristinamycin I. By inhibiting the bacterial ribosomal subunits, protein synthesis is inhibited thus leading to eventual bacterial cell death or stasis. Quinupristin inhibits the late phase of protein synthesis in the bacterial ribosome. Dalfopristin binds to the 23S portion of the 50S ribosomal subunit, and changes the conformation it, enhancing the binding of quinupristin by a factor of about 100. In addition, it inhibits peptidyl transferase. Quinupristin binds to a nearby site on the 50S ribosomal subunit and prevents elongation of the polypeptide as well as causing incomplete chains to be released. Moderate. Quinupristin is converted to two conjugated active major metabolites, one with
Cortisone acetate | DrugBank Online Cortisone acetate is a steroid hormone that has both glucocoriticoid and mineral corticoid activities. Corticosteroids are used to provide relief for inflamed areas of the body. They lessen swelling, redness, itching, and allergic reactions. They are often used as part of the treatment for a number of different diseases, such as severe allergies or skin problems, asthma, or arthritis. Endogenous glucocorticoids and some synthetic corticoids have high affinity to the protein transcortin (also called CBG, corticosteroid-binding protein), whereas all of them bind albumin. Glucocorticoids also bind to the cytosolic glucocorticoid receptor. Cortisone acetate was granted FDA approval on 13 June 1950.1 For the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. Also used to treat endocrine (hormonal) disorders (adrenal insufficiency, Addisons disease). It is also used to treat many immune and allergic disorders. As a glucocorticoid agent, cortisone acetate changes genetic transcription levels causing varied metabolic effects and a modified immune response to varied stimuli. lucocorticoids suppress cell-mediated immunity. They act by inhibiting genes that code for the cytokines IL-1, IL-2, IL-3, IL-4, IL-5, IL-6, IL-8 and TNF-alpha, the most important of which is the IL-2. Reduced cytokine production limits T cell proliferation. Glucocorticoids also suppress humoral immunity, causing B cells to express lower amounts of IL-2 and IL-2 receptors. This diminishes both B cell clonal expansion and antibody synthesis. The diminished amounts of IL-2 also leads to fewer T lymphocyte cells being activated. Cortisone acetate binds to the cytosolic glucocorticoid receptor. After binding the receptor the newly formed receptor-ligand complex translocates itself into the cell nucleus, where it binds to many glucocorticoid response elements (GRE) in the promoter region of the target genes. The DNA bound receptor then interacts with basic transcription factors, causing the increase in expression of specific target genes. The anti-inflammatory actions of corticosteroids are thought to involve lipocortins, phospholipase A2 inhibitory proteins which, through inhibition arachidonic acid, control the biosynthesis of prostaglandins and leukotrienes. Specifically glucocorticoids induce lipocortin-1 (annexin-1) synthesis, which then binds to cell membranes preventing the phospholipase A2 from coming into contact with its substrate arachidonic acid. This leads to diminished eicosanoid production. The cyclooxygenase (both COX-1 and COX-2) expression is also suppressed, potentiating the effect. In other words, the two main products in inflammation Prostaglandins and Leukotrienes are inhibited by the action of Glucocorticoids. Glucocorticoids also stimulate the lipocortin-1 escaping to the extracellular space, where it binds to the leukocyte membrane receptors and inhibits various inflammatory events: epithelial adhesion, emigration, chemotaxis, phagocytosis, respiratory burst and the release of various inflammatory mediators (lysosomal enzymes, cytokines, tissue plasminogen activator, chemokines etc.) from neutrophils, macrophages and mastocytes. Additionally the immune system is suppressed by corticosteroids due to a decrease in the function of the lymphatic system, a reduction in immunoglobulin and complement concentrations, the precipitation of lymphocytopenia, and interference with antigen-antibody binding. Corticosteroids are metabolized primarily in the liver and are then excreted by the kidneys. Some of the topical corticosteroids and their metabolites are also excreted into the bile. Side effects include inhibition of bone formation, suppression of calcium absorption, delayed wound healing and hyperglycemia. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Reichstein,T.; US. Patent 2,403,683; July 9, 1946.
Gallagher,T.F.; US. Patent 2,447,325; August 17,1948; assigned to Research Corporation.
Ginkgo biloba | DrugBank Online The extract of the Ginkgo leaves contains flavonoid glycosides and terpenoids (ginkgolides, bilobalides) and has been used pharmaceutically for hundreds of years. It has many alleged nootropic properties, and is mainly used as memory and concentration enhancer, and anti-vertigo agent. Ginkgo extract seems to have three effects on the human body: it improves blood flow (including microcirculation in small capillaries) to most tissues and organs; it protects against oxidative cell damage from free radicals; and it blocks many of the effects of PAF (platelet aggregation, blood clotting) that have been related to the development of a number of cardiovascular, renal, respiratory and CNS (Central Nervous System) disorders. Appears to be effective in: alleviating age-related memory impairment in some elderly people with mild to moderate age-related memory or cognitive impairment; improving cognitive function in healthy young to middle-aged people; improving symptoms of Alzheimer's, vascular or mixed dementia; improving damage to the visual field in patients with normal tension glaucoma; decreasing the number of painful attacks in patients with Raynaud's syndrome; and may improve symptoms of vertigo and dizziness in some patients.  The mechanism by which ginkgo biloba is thought to be effective for these conditions appears to be in part through active "ginkgolides" terpenoids and flavinoids that appear to inhibit platelet aggregation, neutrophil degranulation, and the induction of oxygen-free radical production The compounds found in ginkgo may have a protective
role in different stages of the decline of intellectual function via several mechanisms of action: vasoregulating activity of arteries, capillaries, and veins (increased blood flow); platelet activating factor (PAF) antagonism; homeostasis of inflammation and oxidative stress; and prevention of cell membrane damage causedby free radicals; and neurotransmission modulation.
The most important substances are flavonoids (ginkgo flavone glycosides) and terpenoids (ginkgolides and
bilobalide).The compounds inginkgo act to varying degrees as scavengers for free radicals. Fresh seeds are toxic and may cause death. Roasted seed and crude ginkgo plant should not be used orally. Consumption of greater than 10 roasted seeds may cause difficulty breathing, weak pulse, seizures, loss of consciousness, and shock. Standardized ginkgo leaf extracts have been used safely in trials lasting several weeks to six years; however, cases of spontaneous hemorrhages have been reported with the conventional use of the standardized extract. As with all medications, individual risk factors must be considered in the assessment of safety of this medication.
Insulin human | DrugBank Online Human Insulin, also known as Regular Insulin, is a short-acting form of insulin used for the treatment of hyperglycemia caused by Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes. Human insulin is produced by recombinant DNA technology and is identical to endogenously produced insulin. Typically prescribed for the management of diabetes mellitus, insulin is a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas that promotes glucose metabolism. Insulin is released from the pancreas following a meal to promote the uptake of glucose from the blood into internal organs and tissues such as the liver, fat cells, and skeletal muscle. Absorption of glucose into cells allows for its transformation into glycogen or fat for storage. Insulin also inhibits hepatic glucose production, enhances protein synthesis, and inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis among many other functions. Insulin is an important treatment in the management of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) which is caused by an autoimmune reaction that destroys the beta cells of the pancreas, resulting in the body not being able to produce or synthesize the insulin needed to manage circulating blood sugar levels. As a result, people with T1D rely primarily on exogenous forms of insulin to lower glucose levels in the blood. Insulin is also used in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), another form of diabetes mellitus that is a slowly progressing metabolic disorder caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors that promote chronically elevated blood sugar levels. Without treatment or improvement in non-pharmacological measures such as diet and exercise to lower blood glucose, high blood sugar eventually causes cellular resistance to endogenous insulin, and in the long term, damage to pancreatic islet cells. Insulin is typically prescribed later in the course of T2D, after trying several oral medications such as Metformin, Gliclazide, or Sitagliptin have been tried, when sufficient damage has been caused to pancreatic cells that the body is no longer able to produce insulin on its own.  Marketed as the brand name product Humulin R or Novolin R, human insulin begins to exert its effects within 30 minutes of subcutaneous administration, while peak levels occur 3-4 hours after administration. Due to its quick onset of action, human insulin is considered "bolus insulin" as it provides high levels of insulin in a short period of time to mimic the release of endogenous insulin from the pancreas after meals. Bolus insulin is often combined with once daily, long-acting "basal insulin" such as Insulin detemir, Insulin degludec, and Insulin glargine to provide low concentrations of background insulin that can keep blood sugar stable between meals or overnight. Use of basal and bolus insulin together is intended to mimic the pancreas' production of endogenous insulin, with a goal of avoiding any periods of hypoglycemia. Human insulin is also available in an inhalable form, intended to be used as a bolus meal-time insulin. Exubera was the first inhaled insulin available on the market and was developed by Inhale Therapeutics (later named Nektar Therapeutics). Unfortunately, limited uptake by physicians and patients, poor sales, bulky packaging, and concerns over the possible impact on lung cancer development resulted in Exubera products being withdrawn from the US markets 6. Exubera was followed by Afrezza, a monomeric inhaled insulin developed by Mannkind Corporation, which received FDA approval in 2016. While still available in the US, Afrezza has had similar concerns associated with its use, and had an FDA "black box" warning added to it to warn about use in patients with chronic lung disease. Afrezza does not currently have Health Canada or European Medicines Agency approval for marketing in Canada or the EU.  Human Insulin is a 51 residue peptide hormone produced by recombinant DNA technology by inserting the human insulin gene into Escherichia coli bacteria or Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The structure is identical to native human insulin, with two amino acid chains covalently linked by disulfide bonds.  Human insulin is also available in an intermediate-acting form as NPH (Neutral Protamine Hagedorn) as the marketed products Novolin N and Humulin N. NPH insulin is provided as a crystalline suspension of insulin with protamine and zinc, resulting in an onset of action in 1 to 3 hours, duration of action up to 24 hours, and peak action from 6 to 8 hours. Due to the added crystals, NPH insulin is typically cloudy when compared to other forms of insulin and has a neutral pH. Without an adequate supply of insulin to promote absorption of glucose from the bloodstream, blood sugar levels can climb to dangerously high levels and can result in symptoms such as fatigue, headache, blurred vision, and increased thirst. If left untreated, the body starts to break down fat, instead of glucose, for energy which results in a build-up of ketone acids in the blood and a syndrome called ketoacidosis, which is a life-threatening medical emergency. In the long term, elevated blood sugar levels increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, and diabetic neuropathy. Human insulin is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus. Insulin is a natural hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas. In non-diabetic individuals, a basal level of insulin is supplemented with insulin spikes following meals. Postprandial insulin spikes are responsible for the metabolic changes that occur as the body transitions from a postabsorptive to absorptive state. Insulin promotes cellular uptake of glucose, particularly in muscle and adipose tissues, promotes energy storage via glycogenesis, opposes catabolism of energy stores, increases DNA replication and protein synthesis by stimulating amino acid uptake by liver, muscle and adipose tissue, and modifies the activity of numerous enzymes involved in glycogen synthesis and glycolysis. Insulin also promotes growth and is required for the actions of growth hormone (e.g. protein synthesis, cell division, DNA synthesis).  The primary activity of insulin is the regulation of glucose metabolism. Insulin promotes glucose and amino acid uptake into muscle and adipose tissues, and other tissues except brain and liver. It also has an anabolic role in stimulating glycogen, fatty acid, and protein synthesis. Insulin inhibits gluconeogenesis in the liver.
Drospirenone | DrugBank Online Drospirenone is a synthetic progestin commonly found in the popular oral contraceptive, Yaz in combination with Ethinyl estradiol.19 Aside from its contraceptive effects, drospirenone is used with estrogens to control acne and premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD).  Drospirenone has been the subject of widespread safety concern due to the possibility of an increased risk of venous thromboembolism associated with its use.4,7 In 2012, however, a safety statement by the FDA concluded that the increase in the risk of thromboembolism resulting from the use of drospirenone remains unclear, as studies regarding this risk are conflicting. Some studies have demonstrated a significantly increased risk and some demonstrating no risk of thromboembolic events. In its statement, the FDA has mentioned that increased risk of venous thromboembolism with oral contraceptives such as drospirenone exists but remains lower than the risk of this condition during pregnancy and during the postpartum period, and this should be considered when assessing potential risks of hormonal contraceptive use.21 Drospirenone, in combination with ethinyl estradiol, is indicated as an oral contraceptive for the prevention of pregnancy. In addition to its use for contraceptive effects, this combination is used to treat moderate acne vulgaris and the symptoms of premenstrual dysphoric disorder.19,20 The drug has approved indications for combination with estrogens for the treatment of menopause-associated symptoms, such as vasomotor symptoms and vulvovaginal atrophy. Drospirenone combined with estrogen may also may aid in the prevention of osteoporosis in women who have been post-menopausal for at least a year and are not candidates for other therapies.23,25 It can sometimes be found in preparations containing estrogen and folic acid for folic acid replenishment during oral contraception.26 When used for the treatment of acne vulgaris, drospirenone-containing contraceptives should only be used in women ≥14 years of age who have experienced menarche, desire oral contraception, and do not have any contraindications to oral contraceptives.20 Off-label uses for this drug include the treatment of menstrual irregularities, dysmenorrhea, hirsutism, and endometriosis.1,11 Drospirenone inhibits the maturation of follicles and inhibits ovulation, preventing pregnancy. It has antiandrogen effects, improving acne and hirsutism. When combined with ethinyl estradiol, it has been shown to have favorable effects on the plasma lipid profile.20 Due to its similarity to naturally occurring progesterone, drospirenone is thought to be associated with a lower incidence of progesterone contraceptive related adverse effects, such as breast tenderness and mood swings.1 A note on venous thromboembolism risk and antimineralcorticoid effects As with other oral contraceptives, the risk of venous thromboembolism and cardiovascular events may be increased when drospirenone is taken. The risk is especially higher in smokers and women aged 35 and older. Women taking this drug should be advised not to smoke. In addition, drospirenone, due to its antimineralcorticoid effects, may increase the risk of hyperkalemia. Patients at high risk for hyperkalemia should not be administered this drug. Consult the official prescribing information for detailed and updated information on the cardiovascular and other risks associated with drospirenone use.19,20,23 Drospirenone and ethinyl estradiol in combination suppress the release of follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) and luteinizing hormone (LH), preventing ovulation. Other changes induced by this drug which may aid in the prevention of pregnancy include alterations in cervical mucus consistency, hindering sperm movement, and lowering the chance of embryo implantation.20 Drospirenone is an analog of the diuretic spironolactone, which exerts anti-mineralocorticoid activity, blocking aldosterone receptors, which increases sodium and water excretion.1 Studies in animals have demonstrated that drospirenone administration leads to antiandrogenic activity. This activity helps to oppose the effects of naturally occurring androgens, inhibiting the binding of dihydrotestosterone (DHT) to its receptor, and preventing androgen synthesis in the ovaries, helping to treat acne and hirsutism.1,12,19 Drospirenone may also decrease the level of edema in sebaceous follicle during the second half of the menstrual cycle, when acne often appears.19 The absolute bioavailability of drospirenone is approximately 76% due to first-pass effects.13,19 The maximum plasma concentration of drospirenone occurs within 1 to 2 hours after oral administration and is estimated to range between 60 and 87 ng/mL.1 A European prescribing monograph for the combination product of estradiol and drospirenone indicates that drospirenone is both completely and rapidly absorbed. It reports a Cmax of 21.9 ng/ml, achieved approximately 1-hour post-administration. The absolute bioavailability is reported to range between 76 to 85%.23 The volume of distribution of drospirenone is estimated to be 4 L/kg, according to the FDA label for Yaz.19 Prescribing information from a combination of estradiol and drospirenone estimates the volume of distribution to range from 3.7- 4.2 L/kg.23  Drospirenone is about 95% to 97% bound to serum plasma protein, likely to albumin.1 During in vitro studies, drospirenone was found to bind with low affinity to sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG).20 Another reference indicates that drospirenone binds to serum albumin but does not bind to sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), nor corticoid binding globulin (CBG). Only 3-5% of the total drospirenone concentration is measured as a free steroid. 23 Drospirenone is heavily metabolized. The two major inactive metabolites identified are the acid form of drospirenone produced by the opening of its lactone ring, known as M11, and the 4,5-dihydro-drospirenone-3-sulfate (M14).1,13 Drospirenone also undergoes oxidative metabolism via the hepatic cytochrome enzyme CYP3A4.17,18,23 Hover over products below to view reaction partners Various metabolites of drospirenone are measured in the urine and feces. Drospirenone elimination from the body is almost after 10 days post-administration1 when negligible amounts of drospirenone are found unchanged in both the urine and feces.23 Between 38% to 47% of the metabolites are identified as glucuronide and sulfate conjugates in the urine. In the feces, approximately 17% to 20% of identifiable metabolites are found to be excreted as glucuronides and sulfates.1 The serum half-life of drospirenone is estimated to be 30 hours.13 The half-life of drospirenone metabolite excretion in the urine and feces is approximately 40 hours.23 Drospirenone is rapidly cleared, typically within 2-3 days of administration of the last active tablet.14 The rate of clearance of drospirenone calculated in the serum ranges from 1.2-1.5 ml/min/kg, however, this value can vary by up to 25% according to the patient.23  The oral LD50 of drospirenone in rats is >2000 mg/kg.22 Overdose information
Clenbuterol | DrugBank Online A substituted phenylaminoethanol that has beta-2 adrenomimetic properties at very low doses. It is used as a bronchodilator in asthma. Used as a bronchodilator in the treatment of asthma patients.  Clenbuterol is a substituted phenylaminoethanol that has beta-2 adrenomimetic properties at very low doses. It is used as a bronchodilator in asthma. Although approved for use in some countries, as of fall, 2006, clenbuterol is not an ingredient of any therapeutic drug approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration. Clenbuterol is a Beta(2) agonist similar in some structural respects to salbutamol. Agonism of the beta(2) receptor stimulates adenylyl cyclase activity which ultimately leads to downstream effects of smooth muscle relaxation in the bronchioles. 89-98% orally 36-39 hours Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Keck, J., Kruger, G., Machleidt, H., Noll, K., Engelhardt, G. and Eckenfels, A.; U S . Patent
Tiotropium | DrugBank Online Tiotropium is a long-acting, antimuscarinic bronchodilator used in the management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and asthma.1,2,3,4,5 Tiotropium acts mainly on M3 muscarinic receptors located in the airways to produce smooth muscle relaxation and bronchodilation.1,2,3,4,5 Tiotropium is more specific for the subset of muscarinic receptors commonly found in the lungs than ipratropium.1 Tiotropium was granted FDA approval on 30 January 2004.2 Tiotropium powder for inhalation is indicated for the maintenance of bronchospasm in COPD and to prevent exacerbations of COPD.2 A combination tiotropium and olodaterol metered inhalation spray is indicated for maintenance of COPD.3 A tiotropium inhalation spray is indicated for the maintenance of bronchospasm in COPD, to prevent exacerbations of COPD, and to treat asthma in patients 12 or more years old.4 A tiotropium metered inhalation spray is indicated for the maintenance of bronchospasm in COPD, to prevent exacerbations of COPD, and to treat asthma in patients 6 or more years old.5 Tiotropium is a long acting antimuscarinic that causes bronchodilation.1,2,3,4,5 The effects of tiotropium last over 24 hours and there is a wide therapeutic index as overdoses are uncommon even at doses well above the recommended maximum.2,3,4,5 Tiotropium is an antagonist of muscarinic receptors M1 to M5.1,2,3,4,5 Inhibition of the M3 receptor in the smooth muscle of the lungs leads to relaxation of smooth muscle and bronchodilation.1,2,3,4,5 33% of an inhaled solution reaches systemic circulation, while oral solutions have a bioavailability of 2-3%.1,3,4,5 A dry powder for inhalation is 19.5% bioavailable.1,2 Tiotropium metered spray for inhalation reaches a maximum concentration in 5-7 minutes.3,4,5 The volume of distribution of tiotropium is 32L/kg.1,2,3,4,5 Tiotropium is 72% protein bound in plasma.1,2,3,4,5 Tiotropium is not heavily metabolized in the body.2,3,4,5 74% of an intravenous dose is excreted in the urine as unchanged drug.2,3,4,5 Tiotropium is nonenzymatically cleaved to the inactive metabolites N-methylscopine and dithienylglycolic acid.2,3,4,5 In vitro experiments show cytochrome P-450 dependent oxidation and glutathione conjugation to further metabolites.2,3,4,5 Hover over products below to view reaction partners 74% of intravenous tiotropium was excreted unchanged in urine.1,2,3,4,5 14% of a dry powder inhalation dose was excreted unchanged in the urine.1 24 hour urinary excretion after 21 days of 5µg once daily inhalation in patients with COPD is 18.6% and in patients with asthma is 12.8%.2,3,4,5 The terminal half life of tiotropium is 24 hours in patients with COPD and 44 hours in patients with asthma.4,5 The total clearance of tiotropium is 880mL/min in healthy subjects receiving 5µg daily.1,2 The renal clearance of tiotropium was 669mL/min.1
Patients <65 years old demonstrated a clearance of 365mL/min while patients ≥65 demonstrated a clearance of 271mL/min.2 This decreased clearance is not associated with increased AUC or Cmax.3,4,5 Symptoms of overdose include altered mental status, tremors, abdominal pain, and severe constipation.2 However, doses of up to 282µg did not lead to systemic anticholinergic effects in a trial of 6 patients.3,4,5
Cefacetrile | DrugBank Online A derivative of 7-aminocephalosporanic acid. Cefacetrile is a broad-spectrum first generation cephalosporin antibiotic effective in Gram-positive and Gram-negative bacterial infections. Cefacetrile is effective against many Gram-positive bacterial strains and somewhat less effective against Gram-negative species. It works by inhibition of bacterial cell wall synthesis. It attains high serum levels and is excreted quickly via the urine. In vitro tests demonstrate that the bactericidal action of cephalosporins results from inhibition of cell wall synthesis. By binding to specific penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs) located inside the bacterial cell wall, it inhibits the third and last stage of bacterial cell wall synthesis. Cell lysis is then mediated by bacterial cell wall autolytic enzymes such as autolysins. Vd of 0.2 to 0.5L/.kg 23 to 38% 1.2 hours Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Bickel, H., Bosshardt, R., Fechtig, B., Schenker, K. and Urech, J.; U.S. Patent 3,483,197;
Acenocoumarol | DrugBank Online Acenocoumarol is a coumarin derivative used as an anticoagulant. Coumarin derivatives inhibit the reduction of vitamin K by vitamin K reductase. This prevents carboxylation of vitamin K-dependent clotting factors, II, VII, IX and X, and interferes with coagulation.6 Hematocrit, hemoglobin, international normalized ratio and liver panel should be monitored. Patients on acenocoumarol are prohibited from giving blood. For the treatment and prevention of thromboembolic diseases. More specifically, it is indicated for the prevention of cerebral embolism, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, thromboembolism in infarction and transient ischemic attacks. It is used for the treatment of deep vein thrombosis and myocardial infarction. Acenocoumarol inhibits the reduction of vitamin K by vitamin K reductase. This prevents carboxylation of certain glutamic acid residues near the N-terminals of clotting factors II, VII, IX and X, the vitamin K-dependent clotting factors. Glutamic acid carboxylation is important for the interaction between these clotting factors and calcium. Without this interaction, clotting cannot occur. Both the extrinsic (via factors VII, X and II) and intrinsic (via factors IX, X and II) are affected by acenocoumarol. Acenocoumarol inhibits vitamin K reductase, resulting in depletion of the reduced form of vitamin K (vitamin KH2). As vitamin K is a cofactor for the carboxylation of glutamate residues on the N-terminal regions of vitamin K-dependent clotting factors, this limits the gamma-carboxylation and subsequent activation of the vitamin K-dependent coagulant proteins. The synthesis of vitamin K-dependent coagulation factors II, VII, IX, and X and anticoagulant proteins C and S is inhibited resulting in decreased prothrombin levels and a decrease in the amount of thrombin generated and bound to fibrin. This reduces the thrombogenicity of clots. Rapidly absorbed orally with greater than 60% bioavailability. Peak plasma levels are attained 1 to 3 hours following oral administration.  The volume of distribution at steady-state appeared to be significantly dose dependent: 78 ml/kg for doses < or = 20 microg/kg and 88 ml/kg for doses > 20 microg/kg respectively 98.7% protein bound, mainly to albumin Extensively metabolized in the liver via oxidation forming two hydroxy metabolites and keto reduction producing two alcohol metabolites. Reduction of the nitro group produces an amino metabolite which is further transformed to an acetoamido metabolite. Metabolites do not appear to be pharmacologically active.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Mostly via the kidney as metabolites 8 to 11 hours. The onset and severity of the symptoms are dependent on the individual's sensitivity to oral anticoagulants, the severity of the overdosage, and the duration of treatment. Bleeding is the major sign of toxicity with oral anticoagulant drugs. The most frequent symptoms observed are: cutaneous bleeding (80%), haematuria (with renal colic) (52%), haematomas, gastrointestinal bleeding, haematemesis, uterine bleeding, epistaxis, gingival bleeding and bleeding into the joints. Further symptoms include tachycardia, hypotension, peripheral circulatory disorders due to loss of blood, nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and abdominal pains. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Stoll, W. and Litvan, F.; U.S. Patent 2,648,682; August 11,1953; assigned to J.R. Geigy A.G.,
Alizapride | DrugBank Online Alizapride is a dopamine antagonist that is capable of demonstrating both prokinetic and antiemetic effects. This kind of pharmacological activity makes it effective for use in the treatment of various kinds of nausea and vomiting, including that which may occur postoperatively. Alizapride is used in the treatment of nausea and vomiting, including postoperative nausea and vomiting.  Alizapride is a dopamine antagonist. The anti-emetic action of Alizapride is due to its antagonist activity at D2 receptors in the chemoreceptor trigger zone (CTZ) in the central nervous system (CNS)—this action prevents nausea and vomiting triggered by most stimuli. Structurally similar to metoclopramide and, therefore, shares similar other atributres related to emesis and prokinetics. renal 3 hours Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Bulteau, G., Acher, J., Collignon, C. and Monier, J.C.; U S . Patent 4,039,672; August 2,1977;
Amrinone | DrugBank Online Amrinone (or inamrinone) is a type 3 pyridine phosphodiesterase inhibitor. It is used in the treatment of congestive heart failure. Used in the treatment of congestive heart failure. Amrinone is a positive inotropic cardiotonic with vasodilator properties, phosphodiesterase inhibitory activity, and the ability to stimulate calcium ion influx into the cardiac cell. Amrinone is a phosphodiesterase inhibitor (PDE3), resulting in increased cAMP and cGMP which leads to an increase in the calcium influx like that caused by beta-agonists resulting in increased inotropic effect. 10 to 49% Hepatic. The primary route of excretion in man is via the urine as both inamrinone and several metabolites (N-glycolyl, N-acetate, O-glucuronide and N-glucuronide). 5 to 8 hours Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Lesher,G.Y. and Opalka, C.J.; US. Patent 4,004,012; January 18,1977; assigned to Sterling
Drug Inc.
Lesher, G.Y. and Opalka, C.J.; U.S. Patent 4,107,315; August 15,1978; assigned to Sterling
Aprindine | DrugBank Online Aprindine is a cardiac depressant used in arrhythmias. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Vanhoof, P. and Clarebout, P.; British Patent 1,321,424; June 27, 1973; assigned to Manufac-
Phenazopyridine | DrugBank Online Phenazopyridine, also known as Pyridium, is a urinary tract analgesic used for the short-term management of urinary tract irritation and its associated unpleasant symptoms such as burning and pain during urination. In the USA, this drug was previously marked by Roche but has been discontinued by the FDA.16 It is still used in various parts of the world. Ingestion of phenazopyridine is found to change the appearance of the urine by imparting an orange or red color, as it is considered an azo dye.15 Phenazopyridine hydrochloride is indicated to relieve uncomfortable symptoms that occur as a consequence of mucosal irritation of the lower urinary tract in adults. The irritation may be a result of trauma, surgery, endoscopic procedures, infection, or the insertion of instruments or urinary catheters.14 Phenazopyridine may be used in combination with antimicrobial therapy but is not used as an antimicrobial agent. It contributes to the relief of discomfort and pain before antimicrobial therapy begins to take effect. It is important to note that the duration of treatment with this drug should last a maximum of 2 days.14 Phenazopyridine is available in many countries as an over the counter drug.7 Phenazopyridine acts as a local anesthetic offering relief from irritating conditions of the urinary tract. It relieves urinary urgency frequency, burning, pain, and discomfort.14,18  A note on urine and skin discoloration and interference with test results Yellowing of the skin or sclerae of the eyes may indicate that the accumulation of phenazopyridine has occurred. This may be a consequence of overdose, decreased renal function, taking the drug for over two days. Elderly patients may be at particular risk due to a decline in renal function, potentiating the risk of phenazopyridine accumulation. The drug should be discontinued if yellowing of the skin or sclerae is observed.14 Hemolytic anemia is a risk of phenazopyridine, especially in cases of overdose. In addition to the above effects, this drug may impart an orange or red color of urine and feces, causing staining of clothing. Other body fluids may also be stained, and in patients wearing contact lenses, phenazopyridine may cause lens staining. Due to its orange-red color, this drug may interfere with laboratory requiring colorimetric, spectrophotometric or fluorometric methods of analysis.14 In patients with G6PD enzyme deficiency, this drug poses a greater risk of hemolysis, even at normal doses and is not recommended.14 A note on carcinogenesis Based on the results of in vivo studies in rats, this drug has been listed as a carcinogen in the USA since 1981. Rats given this drug were found to demonstrate increased rates of hepatocellular carcinoma and colorectal tumors.23 Use this agent with caution and limit the administration of this drug when possible. The full mechanism of action of phenazopyridine is not fully elucidated18, however, it is reported to exert a direct topical analgesic effect on the mucosal lining of the urinary tract via the inhibition of voltage-gated sodium channels17 and possibly group A nerve fibers, as suggested by the results of a study in rats.8 The above actions likely lead to the relief of unpleasant urinary symptoms.15 Phenazopyridine is absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract.10,20 The mean Cmax is 65.00 ± 29.23 ng/mL, the mean Tmax is 2.48 ± 0.50 h, and the mean AUC(0 – ∞)is 431.77 ± 87.82 ng.h/mL.11 Small, trace quantities of phenazopyridine are thought to cross the placenta and the blood-brain barrier, reaching cerebrospinal fluid.15 A pharmacokinetic study in rats determined that phenazopyridine metabolites were present in high levels in the kidney and liver.12 Phenazopyridine is metabolized in the liver, and acetaminophen has been discovered to be one metabolite of this drug.15 Hydroxylation is a pathway by which this drug is metabolized.13 In humans, 5-hydroxyl PAP is the major metabolite (48.3% of the dose) and small amounts of other hydroxy metabolites are produced.11,22 The metabolism of phenazopyridine produces aniline, which is likely associated with methemoglobinemia in some patients or in the case of an overdose. This dye accumulates in the skin, and yellow skin pigmentation has been observed when high doses of this drug have been taken.14 Triaminopyridine is also a metabolite of phenazopyridine.22 During a pharmacokinetic study, aniline contributed to approximately 6.9% of urinary metabolites. N acetyl-p-aminophenol (acetaminophen) contributes to about 18%, P-aminophenol (PAP) contributes 24%, and finally, DPP (unchanged phenazopyridine) contributes to about 41% of excreted urinary metabolites.10 Hover over products below to view reaction partners Up to 65% of an oral phenazopyridine dose is quickly excreted by the kidneys as unchanged drug measured in the urine.15
gamma-Hydroxybutyric acid | DrugBank Online Gamma hydroxybutyric acid, commonly abbreviated GHB, is a therapeutic drug which is illegal in multiple countries. It is currently regulated in the US and sold by Jazz Pharmaceuticals under the name Xyrem. However, it is important to note that GHB is a designated Orphan drug (in 1985). Today Xyrem is a Schedule III drug; however GHB remains a Schedule I drug and the illicit use of Xyrem falls under penalties of Schedule I. GHB is a naturally occurring substance found in the central nervous system, wine, beef, small citrus fruits and almost all other living creatures in small amounts. It is used illegally under the street names Juice, Liquid Ecstasy or simply G, either as an intoxicant, or as a date rape drug. Xyrem is a central nervous system depressant that reduces excessive daytime sleepiness and cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy. Used as a general anesthetic, to treat conditions such as insomnia, clinical depression, narcolepsy, and alcoholism, and to improve athletic performance.  GHB predominantly works at two distinct binding sites in the central nervous system: it works as an agonist at the newly-characterized excitatory GHB receptor, while acting as a weak agonist at the inhibitory GABAB receptor. Since it is a naturally occurring substance, its physiological action is similar to that of some endogenous neurotransmitters in mammalian brain. GHB is probably synthesized from GABA in GABAergic neurons, and released when the neurons fire. GHB is present at much higher concentrations in the brain, where it activates GABA-B receptors to exert its sedative effects. With high affinity, GHB binds to excitatory GHB receptors that are densely expressed throughout the brain, including the cotex and hippocampus. There is some evidence in research that upon activation of GHB receptors in some brain areas, the excitatory neurotransmitter glutamate is released. GHB stimulates dopamin release at low concentrations by acting on the GHB receptor, and the release of dopamine occurs in a biphasic manner. At higher concentrations, GHB inhibits dopamine release by acting on the GABA-B receptors, which is followed by GHB receptor signaling and increased release of dopamine. This explains the paradoxical mix of sedative and stimulatory properties of GHB, as well as the so-called "rebound" effect, experienced by individuals using GHB as a sleeping agent, wherein they awake suddenly after several hours of GHB-induced deep sleep. It is proposed that overtime, the level of GHB in the brain decreases below the threshold for significant GABA-B receptor activation, leading to preferential activation of GHB receptor over GABA-B receptors and enhanced wakefulness.  Animal studies indicate that metabolism is the major elimination pathway for sodium oxybate, producing carbon dioxide and water via the tricarboxylic acid (Krebs) cycle and secondarily by beta-oxidation. Succinic acid enters the Krebs cycle where it is metabolized to carbon dioxide and water. Fecal and renal excretion is negligible.
19-Nor-5-androstenedione | DrugBank Online 19-Nor-5-andorstenedione is a prohormone which has the potential to affect bodily levels of testosterone once metabolized in vivo. It is regulated in the United States as a schedule III controlled substance, and prohibited by the World Anti-Doping Agency for use in competitive sports. It is believed that 19-Nor-5-andorstenedione may be metabolized in the body to produce a metabolite which can activate the androgen receptor, similar to testosterone. However, androgen receptor activation is likely less than that of testosterone or dihydrotestosterone.  Because 19-Nor-5-androstenedione is metabolically related to
other controlled anabolic steroids, it is likely to have similar adverse health effects such as liver, heart and skin problems, hormonal disruptions, stunted growth,
Midomafetamine | DrugBank Online An N-substituted amphetamine analog. It is a widely abused drug classified as a hallucinogen and causes marked, long-lasting changes in brain serotonergic systems. It is commonly referred to as MDMA or ecstasy. It is a widely abused drug classified as a hallucinogen and causes marked, long-lasting changes in brain serotonergic systems. Clinical trials are now testing the therapeutic potential of MDMA for post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and anxiety associated with terminal cancer. MDMA is one of the four most widely used illicit drugs in the U.S. MDMA acts as a releasing agent of serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine. It enters neurons via carriage by the monoamine transporters. Once inside, MDMA inhibits the vesicular monoamine transporter, which results in increased concentrations of serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine into the cytoplasm, and induces their release by reversing their respective transporters through a process known as phosphorylation. It also acts as a weak 5-HT1 and 5-HT2 receptor agonist.
MDMA's unusual entactogenic effects have been hypothesized to be, at least partly, the result of indirect oxytocin secretion via activation of the serotonin system. Oxytocin is a hormone released following events like hugging, orgasm, and childbirth, and is thought to facilitate bonding and the establishment of trust. Based on studies in rats, MDMA is believed to cause the release of oxytocin, at least in part, by both directly and indirectly agonizing the serotonin 5-HT1A receptor. Midomafetamine, or MDMA, is reported to undergo extensive CYP-mediated hepatic metabolism, with CYP2D6 playing a major role in humans. Other CYP enzymes contributing to MDMA metabolism are CYP3A4 and COMT.
Ethylmorphine | DrugBank Online A narcotic analgesic and antitussive. It is metabolized in the liver by ethylmorphine-N-demethylase and used as an indicator of liver function. It is not marketed in the US but is approved for use in various countries around the world. In the US it is a schedule II drug (single-entity) and schedule III drug (in combination products). Ethylmorphine is an analgesic used for pain relief. Ethylmorphine is metabolized by the enzyme cytochrome P450 2D6 to morphine. Morphine is a narcotic pain management agent indicated for the relief of pain in patients who require opioid analgesics for more than a few days. Morphine interacts predominantly with the opioid mu-receptor. These mu-binding sites are discretely distributed in the human brain, with high densities in the posterior amygdala, hypothalamus, thalamus, nucleus caudatus, putamen, and certain cortical areas. They are also found on the terminal axons of primary afferents within laminae I and II (substantia gelatinosa) of the spinal cord and in the spinal nucleus of the trigeminal nerve. In clinical settings, morphine exerts its principal pharmacological effect on the central nervous system and gastrointestinal tract. Its primary actions of therapeutic value are analgesia and sedation. Morphine appears to increase the patient's tolerance for pain and to decrease discomfort, although the presence of the pain itself may still be recognized. In addition to analgesia, alterations in mood, euphoria and dysphoria, and drowsiness commonly occur. Opioids also produce respiratory depression by direct action on brain stem respiratory centers. Ethylmorphine is metabolized by the liver enzyme cytochrome P450 2D6 to morphine. The precise mechanism of the analgesic action of morphine is unknown. However, specific CNS opiate receptors have been identified and likely play a role in the expression of analgesic effects. Morphine first acts on the mu-opioid receptors. The mechanism of respiratory depression involves a reduction in the responsiveness of the brain stem respiratory centers to increases in carbon dioxide tension and to electrical stimulation.
Ethylestrenol | DrugBank Online An anabolic steroid with some progestational activity and little androgenic effect. [PubChem] Szpilfogel, S.A. and de Winter, M.S.; U.S. Patent 2,878,267; March 17, 1959; assigned to Organon Inc.
Difenoxin | DrugBank Online Difenoxin is a 4-phenylpiperidine which is closely related to the opioid analgesic meperidine. Difenoxin alone is a USA Schedule I controlled drug, as it may be habit forming. However, it is listed as a Schedule IV controlled drug if combined with atropine, which is added to decrease deliberate misuse. Motofen(R) is a brand mixture which combines atropine sulfate and difenoxin hydrochloride. It is approved by the FDA to treat acute and chronic diarrhea.  Difenoxin is an active metabolite of the anti-diarrheal drug, diphenoxylate, which is also used in combination with atropine in the brand mixture Lomotil(R). It works mostly in the periphery and activates opioid receptors in the intestine rather than the central nervous system (CNS). [3] Difenoxin is also closely related to loperamide, but unlike loperamide it is still capable of crossing the blood brain barrier to produce weak sedative and analgesic effects. However, the antidiarrheal potency of difenoxin is much greater than its CNS effects, which makes it an attractive alternative to other opioids. Motofen(R) is a combination of atropine, an anticholinergic drug, and difenoxin, an antidiarrheal drug. It has been used in many countries for many years as a second line opioid-agonist antidiarrheal, which exists an intermediate between loperamide and paragoric. [2] Diarrhea which is a result of cyclic or diarrhea predominant Inflammatory Bowel Syndrome may not be treated effectively with difenoxin, diphenoxylate, or loperamide. As such, diarrhea and cramping which does not respond to non-centrally acting derivatives or belladonna derivatives such as atropine are often treated with conservative doses of codeine. In patients with acute ulcerative colitis, as induction of toxic megacolon is possible, and thus use of Motofen(R) is cautioned.  Motofen(R) has been assigned pregnancy category C by the FDA, and is to be used only when the potential benefits outweigh the potential risk to the fetus. The safety of use during lactation is unknown and thus not recommended.  Difenoxin acts as a potent antidiarrheal by slowing the movement of the intestines. It also crosses the blood brain barrier to a slight degree to exert weak sedative and analgesic effects.  Adverse reactions thus include dizziness, drowsiness, lightheadedness and headache, in addition to gastrointestal side effects such as nausea, vomiting, dry mouth and epigastric distress. [Lexicomp, 2013]  Difenoxin acts as an antidiarrheal by activating peripheral opioid receptors in the small intestine and thereby inhibiting peristalsis. However, research has suggested that non-opioid receptor pathways exist. This would explain the potent antidiarrheal effects of difenoxin despite only limited opioid action [1].  A high percentage of Motofen(R) is absorbed, and absorption occurs rapidly.
Peak plasma concentrations are achieved within 40-60 minutes. [Lexicomp, 2013]  Metabolism occurs by hydroxylation to form an inactive metabolite. [Lexicomp, 2013] Both the drug and its metabolites are excreted, mainly as conjugates, in urine and feces. [Lexicomp, 2012] The elimination half life was calculated to be 7.24 hours. The appearance half life was calculated to be 0.82h. [3]  Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Soudyn, W. and van Wijngaarden, I.; US. Patent 3,646,207; February 29,1972; assigned to
Clortermine | DrugBank Online Finocchio, D.V.and Heubner, C.F.; U.S. Patent 3,415,937; December 10,1968; assigned to
Carfentanil | DrugBank Online Carfentanil or carfentanyl (Wildnil) is an analogue of the popular synthetic opioid analgesic fentanyl, and is one of the most potent opioids known (also the most potent opioid used commercially). Carfentanil was first synthesized in 1974 by a team of chemists at Janssen Pharmaceutica which included Paul Janssen. It has a quantitative potency approximately 10,000 times that of morphine and 100 times that of fentanyl, with activity in humans starting at about 1 microgram. It is marketed under the trade name Wildnil as a general anaesthetic agent for large animals. Carfentanil is intended for large-animal use only as its extreme potency makes it inappropriate for use in humans. Currently sufentanil, approximately 10–20 times less potent (500 to 1000 times the efficacy of morphine per weight) than carfentanil, is the maximum strength fentanyl analog for use in humans. Carfentanil is similar (but more potent) to the opioid analgesic fentanyl. It is used as a tranquilizer for large animals. Carfentanil acts primarily on the mu (some kappa and delta) opioid receptors as an agonist. It will induce similar effects of analgesia as other opioids, however, due to its potency, it will also induce strong side effects such as sedation. Consequently, that is why it is used as a tranquilizer for large animals. Carfentanil interacts predominately with the opioid mu-receptor. These mu-binding sites are discretely distributed in the brain, spinal cord, and other tissues. It exerts its principal pharmacologic effects on the central nervous system. Its primary actions of therapeutic value are analgesia and sedation. Carfentanil also depresses the respiratory centers, depresses the cough reflex, and constricts the pupils. Carfentanil binds very strongly to mu opioid receptors and acts as a competitive agonist.
Fenproporex | DrugBank Online Fenproporex is an orally active stimulant drug, which was developed in the 1960s. It is used as an appetite suppressant and a treatment for obesity. It is listed as an illicit substance in many countries due to addiction issues and listed as a prohibited substance by the World Anti-Doping Agency. Structurally, fenproporex (N-2-cyanoethylamphetamine) falls within the phenylethamine and amphetamine chemical class of drugs. The N-2-cyanoethyl substituent was once believed to be resistant to cleavage, because fenproporex -- once recommended as an obesity treatment for patients with cardiovascular disease -- was originally claimed to lack stimulant properties. Contrary to the claim, research has demonstrated easy in vivo cleavage of the N-2-cyanothyl substituent to yield amphetamine as a metabolite. [5] However, in clinical practice, central nervous system stimulative effects are less notorious than with some other agents such as diethylpropion and mazindol. [7] In the United States fenproporex was never approved by the FDA for clinical use due to a lack of efficacy and safety data, and is listed as a drug in Schedule IV of the Controlled Substances Act. In 2006 and 2009, the FDA issued warnings that it had been detected in diet pills sold online, and imported from foreign manufacturers. Despite being banned in the United States, fenproporex has been described as the second most commonly consumed appetite suppressant worldwide, [6] with fenproporex containing anorectics still being commonly prescribed in South America. Little is known about the specific hazards of amphetamine based diet pills, however case reports have noted side effects such as chest pain, palpitations, headaches, and insomnia. In addition, placebo controlled studies have shown that participants using fenproporex experience more joint pain, sweating, blurred vision and tremor. [2] Fenproporex is used as an appetite suppressant, and anti-obesity agent [2]; however, due to substance abuse potential, it is an illicit substance in many countries. In some countries, such as Brazil, it is still prescribed -- often in the form of diet pills (ie. Brazilian Diet Pills) which combine amphetamines, benzodiazepines, antidepressants, diuretics and laxatives.  In the United States the sale of such diet pills has been banned due to concerns over side effects, and the risk of potentially fatal overdose.
Calusterone | DrugBank Online A 17-alkylated orally active androgenic steroid. A Schedule IV drug in Canada. An anabolic steroid which can theoretically aid in restauration and buildup of certain tissues, especially muscle. It is similar to synthetic testosterone and is still in early investigation. It was also investigated for use as a treatment for metastatic breast cancer. Calusterone is a 17-alkylated orally active androgenic steroid. Calusterone may alter the metabolism of estradiol and reduce estrogen production. Calusterone has been investigated for possible antitumor properties. The effects of calusterone in humans most likely occur by way of two main mechanisms: by activation of the androgen receptor, and by conversion to estradiol and activation of certain estrogen receptors.
Dextroamphetamine | DrugBank Online Dextroamphetamine is the dextrorotary enantiomer of amphetamine5. Dextroamphetamine was approved by the FDA in 2001 for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder6,Label. Dextroamphetamine is indicated for the treatment of attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)Label. Dextroamphetamine is a noncatecholamine, sympathomimetic amine that acts as a CNS stimulantLabel. Dextroamphetamine raises systolic and diastolic blood pressure, acts as a weak bronchodilator, and also acts as a respiratory stimulantLabel. The general mechanism of action of dextroamphetamine has not been well establishedLabel. The exact mechanism of amphetamines as a class is not known. Dextroamphetamine acts by preventing reuptake, increasing release, and stimulating reverse-transport of dopamine in synaptic clefts in the striatum4. Newer evidence shows amphetamines may also alter the number of dopamine transporters in synaptic clefts2. Bioavailability data of dextroamphetamine is not readily available, however there is no difference in bioavailability when taken with or without a mealLabel. 195L3. Dextroamphetamine is metabolized by cytochrome P-450 2D6 in the liver to 4-hydroxyamphetamine and later conjugated by sulfotransferase or glucoronyltransferase1. Hover over products below to view reaction partners A third of the drug is eliminated renally5. 11.75 hoursLabel. In a study of post-stroke patients the half life was 16.0 hours in females and 12.4 hours in males5. Studies in healthy populations show a half life of 7.9 hours3. 17L/h3. Dexrtoamphetamine has been shown to be teratogenic and embryotoxic in mice at 41 times the maximum human doseLabel. These effects were not seen in rat or rabbit studies, and the effects on human pregnancy have not been studiedLabel. The risk and benefit of use during pregnancy should be weighed as bone deformities, tracheoesophageal fistula, anal atresia, low birthweight, and withdrawl have been reported in the children of mothers who were taking dextroamphetamine during pregnancyLabel. Mothers should not take amphetamines while nursing as the drug is excreted in breast milkLabel. Long term effects of dextroamphetamine have not bee determined in pediatric patients and dextroamphetamine should be avoided in children under 3 yearsLabel. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Nabenhauer, F.P.; US. Patent 2,276,508; March 17,1942; assigned to Smith, Kline & French
Ursodeoxycholic acid | DrugBank Online Ursodeoxycholic acid is an epimer of chenodeoxycholic acid. It is a mammalian bile acid found first in the bear and is apparently either a precursor or a product of chenodeoxycholate. Its administration changes the composition of bile and may dissolve gallstones. It is used as a cholagogue and choleretic. The drug decreases the absorption of cholesterol and is used to dissolve (cholesterol) gallstones in patients as an alternative to a surgical procedure to remove the gallstones. Ursodiol (commonly known as ursodeoxycholic acid) is a product of metabolism of bacteria in the intestine. It is considered a secondary bile acid. The other type of bile acid, primary bile acids, are produced hepatically and subsequently stored in the gallbladder. When primary bile acids are secreted into the large intestine, they can be broken down into secondary bile acids by bacteria present in the intestine. Both types of bile acids assist in the metabolism of dietary fat. Ursodeoxycholic acid regulates cholesterol levels by slowing the rate at which the intestine is able to absorb cholesterol and also acts to break down micelles, which contain cholesterol. Because of this property, ursodeoxycholic acid is used to treat gall stones non-surgically. Ursodeoxycholic acid reduces elevated liver enzyme levels by facilitating bile flow through the liver and protecting liver cells.
Ketazolam | DrugBank Online Ketazolam is a benzodiazepine derivative with anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant activity. Ketazolam is not approved in Canada or America. Ketazolam could be used for the treatment of anxiety. In approved countries, it is indicated for the treatment of anxiety, tension, irritability and similar stress related symptoms. Benzodiazepines enhance the effect of the neurotransmitter gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), which results in sedative, hypnotic, anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, muscle relaxant and amnesic action.
Everolimus | DrugBank Online Everolimus is a derivative of Rapamycin (sirolimus), and works similarly to Rapamycin as an mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor. It is currently used as an immunosuppressant to prevent rejection of organ transplants. In a similar fashion to other mTOR inhibitors Everolimus' effect is solely on the mTORC1 protein and not on the mTORC2 protein. Everolimus is indicated for the treatment of postmenopausal women with advanced hormone receptor-positive, HER2-negative breast cancer (advanced HR+ BC) in combination with exemestane, after failure of treatment with letrozole or anastrozole.
Indicated for the treatment of adult patients with progressive neuroendocrine tumors of pancreatic origin (PNET) with unresectable, locally advanced or metastatic disease.
Indicated for the treatment of adult patients with advanced renal cell carcinoma (RCC) after failure of treatment with sunitinib or sorafenib.
Indicated for the treatment of adult patients with renal angiomyolipoma and tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC), not requiring immediate surgery.
Indicated in pediatric and adult patients with tuberous sclerosis complex (TSC) for the treatment of subependymal giant cell astrocytoma (SEGA) that requires therapeutic intervention but cannot be curatively resected. Everolimus is a mTOR inhibitor that binds with high affinity to the FK506 binding protein-12 (FKBP-12), thereby forming a drug complex that inhibits the activation of mTOR. This inhibition reduces the activity of effectors downstream, which leads to a blockage in the progression of cells from G1 into S phase, and subsequently inducing cell growth arrest and apoptosis. Everolimus also inhibits the expression of hypoxia-inducible factor, leading to a decrease in the expression of vascular endothelial growth factor. The result of everolimus inhibition of mTOR is a reduction in cell proliferation, angiogenesis, and glucose uptake. In patients with advanced solid tumors, peak everolimus concentrations are reached 1 to 2 hours after administration of oral doses ranging from 5 mg to 70 mg. Following single doses, Cmax is dose-proportional between 5 mg and 10 mg. At doses of 20 mg and higher, the increase in Cmax is less than dose-proportional, however AUC shows dose-proportionality over the 5 mg to 70 mg dose range. Steady-state was achieved within 2 weeks following once-daily dosing.
Tazobactam | DrugBank Online Tazobactam is an antibiotic of the beta-lactamase inhibitor class that prevents the breakdown of other antibiotics by beta-lactamase enzyme producing organisms. It is combined with Piperacillin and Ceftolozane for the treatment of a variety of bacterial infections. Piperacillin-tazobactam was initially approved by the FDA in 1994, and ceftolozane-tazobactam was approved by the FDA in 2014Label, providing wider antibacterial coverage for gram-negative infections. In June 2019, ceftolozane-tazobactam was approved by the FDA for treating hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia and ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia, which are significant causes of morbidity and mortality in hospitalized patients.14 Tazobactam is used in combination with piperacillin or ceftolozane to broaden the spectrum of piperacillin antibacterial action, treating susceptible infections. As with any other antibiotic, tazobactam should only be used for infections that are either proven or strongly suspected to be susceptible to the tazobactam containing drug. Tazobactam-piperacillin When combined with piperacillin, it is used to treat a variety of infections, including those caused by aerobic and facultative gram-positive and gram-negative bacteria, in addition to gram-positive and gram-negative anaerobes. Some examples of infections treated with piperacillin-tazobactam include cellulitis, diabetic foot infections, appendicitis, and postpartum endometritis infections.11 Certain gram-negative bacilli infections with beta-lactamase producing organisms cannot be treated with piperacillin-tazobactam, due to a gene mutation conferring antibiotic resistance.1 Tazobactam-ceftolozane Tazobactam-ceftolozane combined with metronidazole is used to treat complicated urinary tract infections (UTI) and complicated intra-abdominal infections, as well as ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia and hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia.Label. This combination increases efficacy against infections with gram-negative bacilli.2 Tazobactam inhibits the action of bacterial beta-lactamase producing organisms, which are normally resistant to beta-lactam antibiotics. This augments the effects of antibiotics which would otherwise not be effective in treating certain infections. These antibiotics contain a beta-lactam ring in their chemical structure, which is destroyed by beta-lactam resistant organisms.4 When combined with other antibiotics, a variety of infections, including serious and life-threatening infections may be treated.Label,11 Tazobactam broadens the spectrum of piperacillin11 and ceftolozaneLabel by making them effective against organisms that express beta-lactamase and would normally degrade them. This occurs through the irreversible inhibition of beta-lactamase enzymes. In addition, tazobactam may bind covalently to plasmid-mediated and chromosome-mediated beta-lactamase enzymes. Tazobactam is predominantly effective against the OHIO-1, SHV-1, and TEM groups of beta-lactamases, but may also inhibit other beta-lactamases.8,9,10 Tazobactam shows little antibacterial activity by itself, and for this reason, is generally not administered alone.Label Tazobactam is coadministered with piperacillin or ceftolozane, pharmacokinetic information will be provided for these combinations. Piperacillin-tazobactam Peak plasma concentrations occur immediately after the completion of intravenous infusion. Following several doses of piperacillin-tazobactam infusions every 6 hours, peak concentrations were similar to those that were measured after the initial dose.11 Ceftolozane-piperacillin AUC: 24.4-25 mcg•h/mL Peak concentrations are reached on day 1 after the first dose and range from 18 to 18.4 mcg/mL.Label 18.2 L when given with piperacillin 11 13.5-18.2 L when given with ceftolozane Label Piperacillin-tazobactam is widely distributed in body tissues and fluids. These may include but are not limited to the intestine, gallbladder, lung, female reproductive organs, and the bile. Meningeal distribution of piperacillin-tazobactam increases with inflammation, but is otherwise low.11 Tazobactam is bout 30% bound to plasma proteins.11 Tazobactam is mainly metabolized to M1, an inactive metabolite.11
Deferasirox | DrugBank Online Deferasirox is an iron chelator and the first oral medication FDA approved for chronic iron overload in patients receiving long term blood transfusions. For the treatment of chronic iron overload due to blood transfusions (transfusional hemosiderosis) in patients 2 years of age and older. Deferasirox is an orally active chelator that is selective for iron (as Fe3+). It is a tridentate ligand that binds iron with high affinity in a 2:1 ratio. Although deferasirox has very low affinity for zinc and copper there are variable decreases in the serum concentration of these trace metals after the administration of deferasirox. The clinical significance of these decreases is uncertain. Two molecules of deferasirox are capable of binding to 1 atom of iron. Deferasirox works in treating iron toxicity by binding trivalent (ferric) iron (for which it has a strong affinity), forming a stable complex which is eliminated via the kidneys. The absolute bioavailability (AUC) of deferasirox tablets for oral suspension is 70% compared to an intravenous dose. Deferasirox is highly (~99%) protein bound almost exclusively to serum albumin. Hepatic. CYP450-catalyzed (oxidative) metabolism of deferasirox appears to be minor in humans (about 8%). Glucuronidation is the main metabolic pathway for deferasirox, with subsequent biliary excretion. Deferasirox and metabolites are primarily (84% of the dose) excreted in the feces.
Phenindamine | DrugBank Online Phenindamine is an antihistamine. Phenindamine blocks the effects of the naturally occurring chemical histamine in your body. Antihistamines such as phenindamine appear to compete with histamine for histamine H1- receptor sites on effector cells. The antihistamines antagonize those pharmacological effects of histamine which are mediated through activation of H1- receptor sites and thereby reduce the intensity of allergic reactions and tissue injury response involving histamine release. It is used to treat sneezing, runny nose, itching, watery eyes, hives, rashes, itching, and other symptoms of allergies and the common cold.
Pheniramine | DrugBank Online Pheniramine is a first generation antihistamine in the alkylamine class, similar to brompheniramine and chlorpheniramine.3 It is used in
Topiroxostat | DrugBank Online Topiroxostat is a selective xanthine oxidase inhibitor developed for treatment and management of hyperuricemia and gout. Xanthine oxidase, or xanthine oxidoreductase (XOR), regulates purine metabolism, and inhibition of the enzyme results in efficacious reduction of serum urate levels. Xanthine oxidase inhibitors are classified into two groups; purine analogs such as Allopurinol and Oxypurinol, and non-purine agents which includes topiroxostat. While Allopurinol is considered a first-line therapy in treating hyperuricemic conditions, it is often associated with side effects and ineffective in reducing uric acid levels under recommended dosing regimens. Renal complications are major comorbidities that limit the Allopurinol therapy as dose reductions are recommended. Topiroxostat and its metabolites are shown to be unaffected by renal complications, thus may be effective in patients with chronic kidney diseases 2. Approved for therapeutic use in Japan since 2013, topiroxostat is marketed under the name Topiloric and Uriadec and is orally administered twice daily. Indicated for the treatment of gout and hyperurcemia in Japan. Topiroxostat reduces the synthesis of uric acid by competitively inhibiting xanthine oxidase in a selective and time-dependent manner 1. It serves to reduce the concentration of insoluble urates and uric acid in tissues, plasma and urine. Topiroxostat is not reported to cause QT prolongation 4.  Uric acid synthesis depends on the action of xanthine oxidase activity in the conversion of hypoxanthine to xanthine, followed by the conversion of xanthine to uric acid. Xanthine oxidase consists of a molybdenum ion as cofactor in the active center that has different redox states upon substrate binding 9. When a substrate such as hypoxanthine or xanthine binds, xanthine oxidase hydroxylates it and molybdenum ion is reduced from hexavalent, Mo(VI), to tetravalent form, Mo(IV). Molybdenum ion is reoxidized into hexavalent state once the hydroxylated substrate, xanthine or uric acid, dissociates from the active site. Topiroxostat is shown to interact with multiple amino acid residues of the solvent channel and additionally forms a reaction intermediate by covalent binding with molybdenum (IV) ion via an oxygen atom 2,9,5,6. It also forms hydrogen bonds with molybdenum (VI) ion, suggesting that it has multiple inhibition modes to xanthine oxidase 9. Enhanced binding interactions to xanthine oxidase achieves delayed dissociation of topiroxostat from the enzyme. 2-hydroxy-topiroxostat, the metabolite formed by primary hydroxylation of topiroxostat by xanthine oxidase, also causes time and concentration-dependent inhibition of the enzyme 1.
Ribavirin | DrugBank Online Producing a broad-spectrum activity against several RNA and DNA viruses, Ribavirin is a synthetic guanosine nucleoside and antiviral agent that interferes with the synthesis of viral mRNA. It is primarily indicated for use in treating hepatitis C and viral hemorrhagic fevers. HCV is a single-stranded RNA virus that is categorized into nine distinct genotypes, with genotype 1 being the most common in the United States, and affecting 72% of all chronic HCV patients 9. It is reported that ribavirin might be only effective in early stages of viral hemorrhagic fevers including Lasser fever, Crimean-Congo hemorrhagic fever, Venezuelan hemorrhagic fever, and Hantavirus infection. Ribavirin is a prodrug that is metabolized into nucleoside analogs that blocks viral RNA synthesis and viral mRNA capping. Before the development of newer drugs, ribavirin and Peginterferon alfa-2a/Peginterferon alfa-2b dual therapy was considered the first-generation and standard antiviral treatment 5. The dual therapy was administered for 48 weeks in patients with genotype 1, 4, 5, and 6, and 24 weeks in patients with genotype 2 and 3 5. Newer drugs developed as Hepatitis C viral infection treatments can be used to reduce or eliminate the use of ribavirin, which are associated with serious adverse effects. They also improve therapeutic efficacy in patients with failed Peginterferon alfa-2a/Peginterferon alfa-2b and ribavirin-based therapy. The potential use of ribavirin as a treatment for acute myeloid leukemia is currently under investigation. According to 2017 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) and 2015 consensus guidelines from the Canadian Association for the Study of the Liver (CASL), ribavirin is typically used as an adjunct therapy to various first-line and second-line combination therapies recommended for each genotypes. Ribavirin is added to decrease relapse rates by accelerating viral clearance early in the treatment course 7. When used to treat Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infections, it is always used as a part of combination therapies as ribavirin monotherapy is not efficacious in the treatment of chronic hepatitis C infection 6. Additionally, including ribavirin in the regimen can increase the risk of anemia.  In HCV genotye 1/2/3/4/5/6 patients, ribavirin can be used in combination therapy involving Daclatasvir and Sofosbuvir, Eplusa (Sofosbuvir, Velpatasvir), Harvoni (Sofosbuvir, Ledipasvir), Simeprevir and Sofosbuvir, Viekira Pak (Ombitasvir, Paritaprevir, Ritonavir, Dasabuvir), Technivie (Ritonavir, Ombitasvir, Paritaprevir) and Zepatier (Elbasvir, Grazoprevir). Addition of weight-based ribavirin to Technivie therapy increased sustained virologic response after 12 weeks of daily therapy (SVR12) from 90% to 97% in patients with HCV genotype 1a and 90.9% to 100% in HCV genotype 4 patients 9. Zepatier therapy along with ribavirin improved SVR in HCV genotype 5 patients. Combination therapy of ribavirin and Peginterferon alfa-2a results in the SVR of 44% in patients with genotype 1 infection and 70% in patients with genotype 2-6. The inclusion of ribavirin in the combination therapies depend on individual patient's profile, for example if HCV genotype 3 patient has a Y93H genetic variant and compensated cirrhosis. Indicated for the treatment of chronic Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in combination with other antiviral agents with the intent to cure or achieve a sustained virologic response (SVR). Typically added to improve SVR and reduce relapse rates 6. The addition of ribavirin in Technivie therapy indicated for treating HCV genotype 1a and 4 infections is recommended in patients with or without cirrhosis.  Resistance: viral genetic determinants resulting in variable response to ribavirin therapy has not been yet determined.  Ribavirin mediates direct antiviral activity against a number of DNA and RNA viruses by increasing the mutation frequency in the genomes of several RNA viruses. It is a member of the nucleoside antimetabolite drugs that interfere with duplication of the viral genetic material. The drug inhibits the activity of the enzyme RNA dependent RNA polymerase, due to its resemblence to building blocks of the RNA molecules.  Ribavirin is reported to have several mechanism of actions that lead to inhibition of viral RNA and protein synthesis.
After activation by adenosine kinase to ribavirin mono-, di-, and triphosphate metabolites. Ribavirin triphosphate (RTP) is the predominant metabolite which directly inhibits viral mRNA polymerase by binding to the nucleotide binding site of the enzyme. This prevents the binding of the correct nucleotides, leading to a reduction in viral replication or to the production of defective virions 7. RTP also demonstrates an inhibitory action on viral mRNA guanylyltransferase and mRNA 2′-O-methyltransferase of dengue virus. Inhibition of these enzymes disrupts the posttranslational capping of the 5′ end of viral mRNA through ribavirin being incorporated at the 5′ end in place of guanosine and preventing the cap methylation step.  Inhibition of host inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH) and subsequent depletion of GTP pool is proposed to be another mechanism of action of ribavirin. IMPDH catalyzes the rate-limiting step where inosine 5′-monophosphate is converted to xanthine monophosphate during guanosine monophosphate (GMP) synthesis. GMP is later converted to guanosine triphoshpate (GTP). Ribavirin monophosphate mimics inosine 5′-monophosphate and acts as a competitive inhibitor of IMPDH. Inhibited de novo synthesis of guanine nucleotides and decreased intracellular GTP pools leads to a decline in viral protein synthesis and limit replication of viral genomes 7. Ribavirin acts as a mutagen in the target virus to cause an 'error catastrophe' due to increased viral mutations. RTP pairs with cytidine triphosphate or uridine triphosphate with equal efficiency and to block HCV RNA elongation. It causes premature termination of nascent HCV RNA and increases mutagenesis by producing defective virions 7. Ribavirin also exerts an immunomodulatory action of the host to the virus by shifting a Th2 response in favor of a Th1 phenotype. Th2 response and production of type 2 cytokines such as IL-4, IL-5, and IL-10 stimulates the humoral response which enhances immunity toward the virus 7. Ribavirin enhanced induction of interferon-related genes, including the interferon-α receptor, and down-regulation of genes involved in interferon inhibition, apoptosis, and hepatic stellate cell activation in vitro 6.  Ribavirin is reported to be rapidly and extensively absorbed following oral administration. The average time to reach Cmax was 2 hours after oral administration of 1200 mg ribavirin Label. The oral bioavailability is 64% following a single oral dose administration of 600mg ribavirin 10.  Ribavirin displays a large volume of distribution Label.  No protein binding reported 10.  First and as a step required for activation, ribavirin is phosphorylated intracellularly by adenosine kinase to ribavirin mono-, di-, and triphosphate metabolites. After activation and function, ribavirin undergoes two metabolic pathways where it is reversibly phosphorlyated or degraded via deribosylation and amide hydrolysis to yield a triazole carboxylic acid metabolite. In vitro studies indicate that ribavirin is not a substrate of CYP450 enzymes 10. The metabolites of ribavirin are renally excreted. After the oral administration of 600mg radiolabeled ribavirin, approximately 61% of the drug was detected in the urine and 12% was detected in the feces. 17% of administered dose was in unchanged form 10. The terminal half-life of ribavirin following administration of a single oral dose of 1200 mg is about 120 to 170 hours Label. The total apparent clearance rate after a single oral dose administration of 1200 mg ribavirin is 26L/h Label.  Rivabirin and PEG-Interferon Alfa-2A dual therapy is associated with flu-like symptoms, depression, suicide, insomnia, irritability, relapse of drug abuse/overdose, hepatic decompensation in 2% of HIV co-infected patients and bacterial infections each occurring at a frequency of less than 1%.
Ribavirin-induced anemia is a dose-dependent adverse effect where reduced hemoglobin levels can be seen within the first 1-2 weeks in therapy. The mechanism of ribavirin-induced anemia has been shown to involve reductions in reticulocyte counts and erythrocyte Na-K pump activity, and increases in K-Cl cotransport, membrane bound IgG, and C3, and erythrocyte band 3 6.
Prasterone | DrugBank Online Prasterone, also known as dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is a major C19 steroid produced by the adrenal cortex. It is also produced in small quantities in the testis and the ovary. Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) can be converted to testosterone; androstenedione; estradiol; and estrone. Most of DHEA is sulfated (dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate) before secretion. In the United States, DHEA or DHEAS have been advertised with claims that they may be beneficial for a wide variety of ailments. DHEA and DHEAS are readily available in the United States, where they are marketed as over-the-counter dietary supplements. In November 2016, DHEA was approved (as Intrarosa) to treat women experiencing moderate to severe pain during sexual intercourse (dyspareunia), a symptom of vulvar and vaginal atrophy (VVA), due to menopause. In Canada, a prescription is required to buy DHEA. DHEA is taken as a supplement for a variety of unsubstantiated indications. The following indications have shown promise and are backed up by some scientific evidence: schizophrenia (DHEA may be more effective in women than men); improving the appearance of older people’s skin (taking DHEA by mouth seems to increase skin thickness and moisture, and decrease facial “age spots” in elderly men and women); improving ability to achieve an erection in men with sexual dysfunction. Additionally, DHEA has shown promise in improving symptoms of lupus (SLE). Taking DHEA by mouth along with conventional treatment may help reduce the number of times symptoms flare up and may allow a reduction in the dose of prescription drugs needed. DHEA may also help SLE symptoms such as muscle ache and mouth ulcers. DHEA also seems to strengthen bones in SLE patients being treated with high-dose steroids (corticosteroids).
Dalfopristin | DrugBank Online Dalfopristin is a combination of two antibiotics (Dalfopristin and quinupristin) used to treat infections by staphylococci and by vancomycin-resistant Enterococcus faecium. It is not effective against Enterococcus faecalis infections. Dalfopristin inhibits the early phase of protein synthesis in the bacterial ribosome and quinupristin inhibits the late phase of protein synthesis. For the treatment of bacterial infections (usually in combination with quinupristin). Dalfopristin is a streptogramin antibiotic, derived from pristinamycin IIA.  The site of action of dalfopristin is the bacterial ribosome. Dalfopristin
Xylitol | DrugBank Online Xylitol is a naturally occurring five-carbon sugar alcohol found in most plant material, including many fruits and vegetables. Xylitol-rich plant materials include birch and beechwood 1. It is widely used as a sugar substitute and in "sugar-free" food products. The effects of xylitol on dental caries have been widely studied, and xylitol is added to some chewing gums and other oral care products to prevent tooth decay and dry mouth. Xylitol is a non-fermentable sugar alcohol by most plaque bacteria, indicating that it cannot be fermented into cariogenic acid end-products 4. It works by inhibiting the growth of the microorganisms present in plaque and saliva after it accummulates intracellularly into the microorganism 4. The recommended dose of xylitol for dental caries prevention is 6–10 g/day, and most adults can tolerate 40 g/day without adverse events 1. Indicated for use as a sugar substitute, and oral hygiene active ingredient.  There has been evidence of xylitol in dental hygiene in reducing dental caries disease and also reversing the process of early caries 1. Xylitol increases salivary flow and pH, reduces the levels of Streptococcus mutans in plaque and saliva and reduces the adhesion on the microorganism to the teeth surface 1. Streptococcus mutans is the main target plaque microorganism 2, but xylitol may potentially have inhibitory actions against several other bacterial species 1.
Phenylbutyric acid | DrugBank Online A monocarboxylic acid the structure of which is that of butyric acid substituted with a phenyl group at C-4. It is a histone deacetylase inhibitor that displays anticancer activity. It inhibits cell proliferation, invasion and migration and induces apoptosis in glioma cells. It also inhibits protein isoprenylation, depletes plasma glutamine, increases production of foetal haemoglobin through transcriptional activation of the γ-globin gene and affects hPPARγ activation. Adjunctive therapy for the management of chronic urea cycle disorders due to deficiencies in carbamylphosphate (CPS), ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC), or argininosuccinic acid synthetase. it is indicated in all neonatal- onset efficiency presenting within the first 28 days of life. Also indicated in patients with late-onset, presenting after the first month of life with a history of hyperammonemic encephalopathy.  Decreases elevated plasma ammonia glutamine levels Sodium phenylbutyrate is a pro-drug that is metabolized to the active compound phenylacetate. Phenylacetate conjuages with glutamine via acetylation reaction to form the product phenylacetylglutamine, which is excreted by the kidneys. This provides an alternative mechanism for waste nitrogen excretion.  Under fasting condition the Cmax of a single orally ingested 5g tablet and 5g powder after 1 hour are respectively 218mcg/ml and 195mcg/ml.
The effect of food on phenylbutyrate absorption is still unknown. The volume of distribution of phenylbutyrate is 0.2 l/kg. phenylbutyrate and Phenylacetate concentrations in the plasma were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. Both drugs exhibited concentration-dependent binding. Results showed sodium phenylacetate to have a higher free fraction than sodium phenylbutyrate at corresponding concentrations (> 0.442 +/- 0.008 and > 0.188 +/- 0.001, respectively). Both have high free fractions in plasma. The overall disposition of sodium phenylbutyrate and its metabolites has not been characterized fully. However, the drug is known to be metabolized to phenylacetate and subsequently to phenylacetylglutamine.
Metabolism of phenylbutyrate occurs mainly in liver and kidney. Hover over products below to view reaction partners The major route of elimination is the kidneys as phenylacetylglutamine.  For sodium phenylbutyrate the half life is 0.77 hours. For phenylacetate the half life is 1.15 hours.  Within 24 hours 80-100% of the administered dose in eliminated in the urine as pheylacetylglutamine.  Clinical adverse reaction: In females who were menstruating, 23% reported amenorrhea or menstrual dysfunction. In all patients, 4% reported a decreased appetite, and body odor issues, and 3% of patients report a taste aversion. Other adverse events that occurred in less than 2% of patients were abdominal pain, gastritis, nausea and vomiting, constipation, rectal bleeding, peptic ulcer disease, pancreatitis, aplastic anemia, ecchymosis, arrhythmia, edema, renal tubular acidosis, depressions, skin rash, headache, syncope, and weight gain occurring in at least one patient.
Carbenoxolone | DrugBank Online An agent derived from licorice root. It is used for the treatment of digestive tract ulcers, especially in the stomach. Antidiuretic side effects are frequent, but otherwise the drug is low in toxicity. [PubChem] Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Gottfried, S. and Baxendale, L.; U.S. Patent 3,070,623; December 25,1962; assigned to Biorex
Dexrazoxane | DrugBank Online An antimitotic agent with immunosuppressive properties. Dexrazoxane, the (+)-enantiomorph of razoxane, provides cardioprotection against anthracycline toxicity. It appears to inhibit formation of a toxic iron-anthracycline complex. [PubChem]
Carbocisteine | DrugBank Online Carbocisteine is a mucolytic that reduces the viscosity of sputum to relieve the symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) and bronchiectasis through easier expulsion of mucus. Carbocisteine should not be used with antitussives (cough suppressants) or medicines that dry up bronchial secretions as they are functional antagonists. Carbocisteine is produced by alkylation of cysteine with chloroacetic acid. Used to help relieve the symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) and bronchiectasis. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Maierhofer, A. and Wagner, H.: US. Patent 4,129,593; December 12,1978: assigned to
Carbachol | DrugBank Online A slowly hydrolyzed cholinergic agonist that acts at both muscarinic and nicotinic receptors. Primarily used in the treatment of glaucoma, but is also used during ophthalmic surgery. Carbachol is a potent cholinergic (parasympathomimetic) agent which produces constriction of the iris and ciliary body resulting in reduction in intraocular pressure. The exact mechanism by which carbachol lowers intraocular pressure is not precisely known. In the cat and rat, carbachol is well-known for its ability to induce rapid eye movement (REM) sleep when microinjected into the pontine reticular formation by activating the postsynaptic muscarinic acetylcholine receptors (mAChRs).  Carbachol is a parasympathomimetic that stimulates both muscarinic and nicotinic receptors. In topical ocular and intraocular administration its principal effects are miosis and increased aqueous humour outflow. Carbachol displays limited absorption from the gastrointestinal tract and it is not reported to cross the blood-brain barrier. Oral, mouse: LD50 = 15 mg/kg; Oral, rat: LD50 = 40 mg/kg. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Major, R.T. and Bonnett, H.T.; U.S. Patent 2,374,367; April 24,1945; assigned to Merck &
Lapatinib | DrugBank Online Lapatinib is an anti-cancer drug developed by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) as a treatment for solid tumours such as breast and lung cancer. It was approved by the FDA on March 13, 2007, for use in patients with advanced metastatic breast cancer in conjunction with the chemotherapy drug Capecitabine. Lapatinib is human epidermal growth factor receptor type 2 (HER2/ERBB2) and epidermal growth factor receptor (HER1/EGFR/ERBB1) tyrosine kinases inhibitor. It binds to the intracellular phosphorylation domain to prevent receptor autophosphorylation upon ligand binding. Indicated in combination with capecitabine for the treatment of patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer whose tumors overexpress the human epidermal receptor type 2 (HER2) protein and who have received prior therapy including an anthracycline, a taxane, and trastuzuma. Lapatinib is a small molecule and a member of the 4-anilinoquinazoline class of kinase inhibitors. An anti-cancer drug, lapatinib was developed by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) as a treatment for solid tumours such as breast and lung cancer. It was approved by the FDA on March 13, 2007, for use in patients with advanced metastatic breast cancer in conjunction with the chemotherapy drug capecitabine.  Lapatinib is a 4-anilinoquinazoline kinase inhibitor of the intracellular tyrosine kinase domains of both epidermal growth factor receptor (HER1/EGFR/ERBB1) and human epidermal growth factor receptor type 2 (HER2/ERBB2)with a dissociation half-life of ≥300 minutes. Lapatinib inhibits ERBB-driven tumor cell growth in vitro and in various animal models. An additive effect was demonstrated in an in vitro study when lapatinib and 5-florouracil (the active metabolite of capecitabine) were used in combination in the 4 tumor cell lines tested. The growth inhibitory effects of lapatinib were evaluated in trastuzumab-conditioned cell lines. Lapatinib retained significant activity against breast cancer cell lines selected for long-term growth in trastuzumab-containing medium in vitro. These in vitro findings suggest non-cross-resistance between these two agents. Absorption following oral administration of lapatinib is incomplete and variable. Highly bound (>99%) to albumin and alpha-1 acid glycoprotein Lapatinib undergoes extensive metabolism, primarily by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, with minor contributions from CYP2C19 and CYP2C8 to a variety of oxidated metabolites, none of which accounts for more than 14% of the dose recovered in the feces or 10% of lapatinib concentration in plasma. Lapatinib undergoes extensive metabolism, primarily by CYP3A4 and CYP3A5, with minor contributions from CYP2C19 and CYP2C8 to a variety of oxidated metabolites, none of which accounts for more than 14% of the dose recovered in the feces or 10% of lapatinib concentration in plasma. Single-dose terminal half life: 14.2 hours
Cholic Acid | DrugBank Online A major primary bile acid produced in the liver and usually conjugated with glycine or taurine. It facilitates fat absorption and cholesterol excretion. [PubChem]
Allopurinol | DrugBank Online Gout is a disease that occurs by the deposition of monosodium urate crystals (MSU) in body tissues, especially around joints 7. This disease has been well-documented in historical medical records and appears in the biographies of several prominent, historically recognized individuals 7. Allopurinol is a xanthine oxidase enzyme inhibitor that is considered to be one of the most effective drugs used to decrease urate levels and is frequently used in the treatment of chronic gout 6. It was initially approved by the FDA in 1966 12 and is now formulated by several manufacturers 13. Allopurinol is indicated in Label: 1) the management of patients with signs and symptoms of primary or secondary gout (acute attacks, tophi, joint destruction, uric acid lithiasis, and/or nephropathy). 2) the management of patients with leukemia, lymphoma and malignancies who are receiving cancer therapy which causes elevations of serum and urinary uric acid levels. Treatment with allopurinol should be discontinued when the potential for overproduction of uric acid is no longer present. 3) the management of patients with recurrent calcium oxalate calculi whose daily uric acid excretion exceeds 800 mg/day in male patients and 750 mg/day in female patients. Therapy in such patients should be carefully assessed initially and reassessed periodically to determine in each case that treatment is beneficial and that the benefits outweigh the risks. Allopurinol decreases the production of uric acid by stopping the biochemical reactions that precede its formation Label. This process decreases urate and relieves the symptoms of gout, which may include painful tophi, joint pain, inflammation, redness, decreased range of motion, and swelling 2. Allopurinol is a structural analog of the natural purine base, hypoxanthine. After ingestion, allopurinol is metabolized to its active metabolite, oxypurinol (alloxanthine) in the liver 11, which acts as an inhibitor of xanthine oxidase enzyme Label.  Allopurinol and its active metabolite inhibit xanthine oxidase, the enzyme that converts hypoxanthine to xanthine and xanthine to uric acid. Inhibition of this enzyme is responsible for the effects of allopurinol. This drug increases the reutilization of hypoxanthine and xanthine for nucleotide and nucleic acid synthesis by a process that involves the enzyme hypoxanthine-guanine phosphoribosyltransferase (HGPRTase). This process results in an increased nucleotide concentration, which causes feedback inhibition of de novo purine synthesis. The end result is decreased urine and serum uric acid concentrations 15, which decreases the incidence of gout symptoms.  Accompanying the reduction of serum uric acid by allopurinol is an increase in the serum and urine concentrations of hypoxanthine and xanthine (due to inhibition of xanthine oxidase). In the absence of allopurinol, regular urinary excretion of oxypurines almost entirely occurs in the form of uric acid. After the ingestion of allopurinol, the contents of excreted urine are hypoxanthine, xanthine, and uric acid. Because each substance has its own individual solubility, the concentration of uric acid in plasma is decreased without exposing the renal tissues to a high load of uric acid, thereby decreasing the risk of crystalluria. By lowering the uric acid concentration in the plasma below its limits of solubility, allopurinol encourages the dissolution of gout tophi. Although the levels of hypoxanthine and xanthine are found to be increased after allopurinol ingestion, the risk of deposition in renal tissues is less than that of uric acid, as they become more soluble and are rapidly excreted by the kidney 15.  This drug is about 90% absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Peak plasma levels normally occur at 1.5 hours and 4.5 hours post-dose for allopurinol and oxipurinol respectively. Following one oral dose of 300 mg of allopurinol, maximum plasma levels of about 3 mcg/mL of allopurinol and 6.5 mcg/mL of oxipurinol were measured Label. Allopurinol and oxypurinol are both substrates for the enzyme xanthine oxidase, which is present in the cytoplasm of endothelial cells of capillaries, including sinusoids, with the highest activity demonstrated in the liver and intestinal lining. Tissue concentrations of allopurinol have not yet been reported in humans, however, it is probable that allopurinol and the metabolite oxypurinol would be measured in the highest concentrations in the abovementioned tissues. In animals, allopurinol concentrations are found to reach the highest levels in the blood, liver, intestine and heart, and lowest in the brain and lung tissues 9. Allopurinol and oxypurinol are only negligibly bound to plasma proteins 10,9.  Allopurinol is rapidly metabolized to the corresponding xanthine analog, oxipurinol (alloxanthine), which is also an inhibitor of xanthine oxidase enzyme Label.
Both allopurinol and oxypurinol inhibit the action of this enzyme. Allopurinol and oxypurinol are also converted by the purine salvage pathway to their respective ribonucleotides. The effect of these ribonucleotides related to the hypouricemic action of allopurinol in humans is not fully elucidated to this date. These metabolites may act to inhibit de novo purine biosynthesis by inhibiting the enzyme, amidophosphoribosyltransferase. The ribonucleotides have not been found to be incorporated in DNA 8. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Approximately 80% of orally ingested allopurinol is found excreted in the urine as various metabolites 9. About 20% of ingested allopurinol is excreted in the feces Label.  The plasma half-life of allopurinol is 1-2 hours, due to its rapid renal clearance Label.  Since allopurinol and its metabolites are mainly eliminated by the kidney, accumulation of this drug can occur in patients with renal dysfunction or failure, and the dose of allopurinol should, therefore, be reduced. With a creatinine clearance of 10 to 20 mL/min, a daily dosage of 200 mg of allopurinol is suitable. When the creatinine clearance is less than 10 mL/min, the daily dosage should not be higher than 100 mg. With severe renal impairment (creatinine clearance measured at less than 3 mL/min) a longer interval between doses may be required Label.  Oral TDLO (rat): 10 mg/kg; Oral LD50 (mouse): 78 mg/kg; Oral TDLO (mouse): 100 mg/kg 14  Use in pregnancy Reproductive studies have been completed using rats and rabbit models at doses up to twenty times the normal human dose ( about 5 mg/kg per day), and it was concluded that fertility was not impaired and there was no fetal harm. There is a published report of a study in pregnant mice administered 50 or 100 mg/kg allopurinol intraperitoneally on gestation days 10 or 13. There were increased numbers of dead fetuses in dams administered 100 mg/kg allopurinol, however, death did not occur in those given 50 mg/kg. There were higher numbers of external malformations in fetuses at both doses of allopurinol on gestation day 10 and higher numbers of skeletal malformations in fetuses at both doses on gestation day 13. Despite the above findings, there are no adequate or well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Because animal reproduction studies are not always predictive of human response, this drug should be used during pregnancy only if it is absolutely required Label.  Use in nursing Both allopurinol and the metabolite oxipurinol have been found in the milk of a mother who was receiving allopurinol. Since the effect of allopurinol on the nursing infant is unknown, it is advisable to exercise caution when allopurinol is taken by a nursing woman Label.  Mutagenicity and carcinogenicity Cytogenic studies demonstrate that allopurinol does not induce chromosomal abnormalities in human blood cells in vitro at concentrations up to 100 g/mL and in vivo at doses up to 60 mg/day for an average duration of 40 months. Allopurinol does not form nitroso compounds (which may be carcinogenic) or affect lymphocyte transformation in vitro. Evidence suggests that allopurinol does not have deleterious effects on DNA at any stage of the cell cycle and was not found to be mutagenic. No evidence of carcinogenicity has been observed in mice treated with allopurinol for up to a 2 year period 15.  Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Druey, J. and Schmidt, P.; US. Patent 2868,803; January 13,1959; assigned to Ciba Pharmaceutical Products Inc.
Hitchings, G.H. and Falco, EA.; U.S. Patent 3,474,098; October 21,1969; assigned to Bur-
roughs Wellcome & Co.
Cresswell, R.M.and Mentha, J.W.; US.Patent4,146,713; March27,1979; assigned to Bur-
Flavin adenine dinucleotide | DrugBank Online A condensation product of riboflavin and adenosine diphosphate. The coenzyme of various aerobic dehydrogenases, e.g., D-amino acid oxidase and L-amino acid oxidase. (Lehninger, Principles of Biochemistry, 1982, p972)
Flavin adenine dinucleotide is approved for use in Japan under the trade name Adeflavin as an ophthalmic treatment for vitamin B2 deficiency. Used to treat eye diseases caused by vitamin B2 deficiency, such as keratitis and blepharitis. Oral mouse LD50 > 7000 mg/kg.
Oteracil | DrugBank Online Oteracil is an adjunct to antineoplastic therapy, used to reduce the toxic side effects associated with chemotherapy. Approved by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) in March 2011, Oteracil is available in combination with Gimeracil and Tegafur within the commercially available product "Teysuno". The main active ingredient in Teysuno is Tegafur, a pro-drug of Fluorouracil (5-FU), which is a cytotoxic anti-metabolite drug that acts on rapidly dividing cancer cells. By mimicking a class of compounds called "pyrimidines" that are essential components of RNA and DNA, 5-FU is able to insert itself into strands of DNA and RNA, thereby halting the replication process necessary for continued cancer growth. Oteracil's main role within Teysuno is to reduce the activity of 5-FU within normal gastrointestinal mucosa, and therefore reduce's gastrointestinal toxicity 1. It functions by blocking the enzyme orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRT), which is involved in the production of 5-FU. Oteracil is used as an adjunct to antineoplastic therapy. When used within the product Teysuno, oteracil is indicated for the treatment of adults with advanced gastric (stomach) cancer when given in combination with cisplatin. Oteracil's main role within Teysuno is to reduce the activity of 5-FU within normal gastrointestinal mucosa, and therefore reduce's gastrointestinal toxicity 1. It functions by blocking the enzyme orotate phosphoribosyltransferase (OPRT), which is involved in the production of 5-FU. After administration of a single dose of 50 mg Teysuno (expressed as tegafur content), median Tmax for Teysuno components tegafur, gimeracil, and oteracil was 0.5, 1.0, and 2.0 hours, respectively 1. Although no intravenous data are available for Teysuno in humans, the volume of distribution could be roughly estimated from the apparent volume of distribution and urinary excretion data as 16 l/m2, 17 l/m2, and 23 l/m2 for tegafur, gimeracil and oteracil, respectively 1. Oteracil, gimeracil, 5-FU, and tegafur are 8.4%, 32.2%, 18.4%, and 52.3% protein bound, respectively 1. Based on the results of in vitro studies, a part of oteracil is non-enzymatically degraded to 5-azauracil (5-AZU) by gastric fluid, and is then converted to cyanuric
Phenol | DrugBank Online Phenol is an antiseptic and disinfectant. It is active against a wide range of micro-organisms including some fungi and viruses, but is only slowly effective against spores. Phenol has been used to disinfect skin and to relieve itching. Phenol is also used as an oral analgesic or anesthetic in products such as Chloraseptic to treat pharyngitis. Additionally, phenol and its related compounds are used in surgical ingrown toenail treatment, a process termed phenolization. Research indicates that parental exposure to phenol and its related compounds are positively associated with spontaneous abortion. During the second world war, phenol injections were used as a means of execution by the Nazis. Phenol is a toxic compound whose vapours are corrosive to the skin, eyes, and respiratory tract. Phenol is primarily indicated for minor sore throat pain, sore mouth, minor mouth irritation, and pain associated with canker sores. Additionally, phenol is indicated in the treatment of focal spasticity.  Phenol is a potent proteolytic agent. Concentrations in the 5% to 7% range dissolve tissue on contact via proteolysis. In high concentrations when injected next to a nerve, phenol produces a chemical neurolysis which is nonselective across nerve fiber size and most prominent on its outer aspect. Local anesthetic effects occur within 5-10 minutes.  Phenol is rapidly absorbed through the skin and into the lungs.  At I5 min after exposure, the liver contained the highest level of phenol, consisting mainly of free phenol. After 82 minutes post administration, phenol is uniformly distributed in the liver, blood, kidneys, lungs, along with the heart, testes, thymus and the spleen. With the passage of time, the proportion of free to conjugated phenol changed. By 360 minutes most phenol appears in conjugated forms. Phenyl sulfate, phenyl glucuronide, quinol sulfate, and quinol glucuronide were detected in human beings as phenol metabolites.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners The kidney is the primary route of elimination of phenol.  In rabbits, 72% is excreted in the urine, 1% in the feces, 4% in the carcass following sacrifice, and trace amounts were exhaled.  Mouse, Subcutaneous, LD50: 0.3-0.35 g/kg. (Duplay and Cazin, 1891; Tollens, 1905).
Rat, Subcutaneous, LD50: 0.45. (Deichmann and Witherup, 1944).
Rat, Oral, LD50: 0.53. (Deichmann and Witherup, 1944).
Rat, Oral, LD50: 0.65. (Flickinger, 1976).
Doconexent | DrugBank Online A mixture of fish oil and primrose oil, doconexent is used as a high-docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) supplement. DHA is a 22 carbon chain with 6 cis double bonds with anti-inflammatory effects. It can be biosythesized from alpha-linolenic acid or commercially manufactured from microalgae. It is an omega-3 fatty acid and primary structural component of the human brain, cerebral cortex, skin, and retina thus plays an important role in their development and function. The amino-phospholipid DHA is found at a high concentration across several brain subcellular fractions, including nerve terminals, microsomes, synaptic vesicles, and synaptosomal plasma membranes 10. Used as a high-docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) oral supplement.  DHA in the central nervous system is found in the phospholipid bilayers where it modulates the physical environment and increase the free volume within the membrane bilayer. It influences the G-protein coupled receptor activity and affects transmembrane transport and cell interaction with the exterior world. It is also reported to promote apoptosis, neuronal differentiation and ion channel activity. Like other polyunsaturated fatty acids, DHA acts as a ligand at PPARs that plays an anti-inflammatory effect and regulate inflammatory gene expression and NFκB activation. DHA also gives rise to resolvins and related compounds (e.g., protectins) through pathways involving cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase enzymes to resolve the inflammatory responses.  DHA and its conversion to other lipid signalling moleccules compete with the arachidonic acid cascade from endogenous phospholipids and shift the inflammatory state to being more anti-inflammatory. DHA inhibits endotoxin-stimulated production of IL-6 and IL-8 in human endothelial cells. Derivatives of DHA are anti-inflammatory lipid mediators. Lipid mediators resolvin D1 and protectin D1 all inhibit transendothelial migration of neutrophils, so preventing neutrophilic infiltration at sites of inflammation, resolvin D1 inhibits IL-1β production, and protectin D1 inhibits TNF and IL-1β production 1. Monoxydroxy derivative of DHA converted by LOX inhibit thromboxane-induced platelet aggregation. DHA supplementation has also shown to reduce the levels of serum C-reactive protein (CRP) and other circulating markers of inflammation such as neutrophils in hypertriglyceridemic men 12.
DHA acts as a ligand at peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma and alpha that regulate lipid signalling molecule-mediated transduction pathways and modulate inflammation.
Febuxostat | DrugBank Online Febuxostat is a xanathine oxidase (XO) inhibitor indicated in patients with gout suffering from hyperuricemia and is used in its chronic management. Febuxostat is not recommended for the treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia. Febuxostat is marketed under the trade name Uloric by Takeda Pharmaceuticals America, Inc., and was approved by the FDA in February 2009. For the treatment of hyperuricemia in patients with gout. Febuxostat (ULORIC) is a novel, xanthine oxidase/dehydrogenase (XO/XDH) inhibitor being developed by Teijin, TAP Pharmaceuticals, and Ipsen for the treatment of gout. The currently available XO inhibitor, allopurinol, has been associated with serious instances of severe hypersensitivity, in some cases leading to fatalities. There is some suggestion that febuxostat is less prone to excacerbate systemic inflammatory events in animal studies. Febuxostat, a xanthine oxidase inhibitor, achieves its therapeutic effect by decreasing serum uric acid. Febuxostat is not expected to inhibit other enzymes involved in purine and pyrimidine synthesis and metabolism at therapeutic concentrations. >49% The mean apparent steady state volume of distribution (Vss/F) of febuxostat was approximately 50 L (CV ~40%) 99.2% Febuxostat is extensively metabolized by both conjugation via uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) enzymes including UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A9, and UGT2B7 and oxidation via cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes including CYP1A2, 2C8 and 2C9 and non-P450 enzymes. The relative contribution of each enzyme isoform in the metabolism of febuxostat is not clear. The oxidation of the isobutyl side chain leads to the formation of four pharmacologically active hydroxy metabolites, all of which occur in plasma of humans at a much lower extent than febuxostat.
Teriflunomide | DrugBank Online Teriflunomide is the active metabolite of leflunomide, and it acts as an immunomodulatory agent by inhibiting pyrimidine synthesis. It is marketed under the name Aubagio® and is indicated for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, specifically relapsing forms. The FDA label states an important warning about the risk of hepatoxicity and teratogenicity for patients using teriflunomide. Used in the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). Teriflunomide is an immunomodulatory agent that decreases the amount of activated CNS lymphocytes, which results in anti-inflammatory and antiproliferative effects. The exact mechanism by which teriflunomide acts in MS is not known. What is known is that teriflunomide prevents pyrimidine synthesis by inhibiting the mitochondrial enzyme
Glycerin | DrugBank Online A trihydroxy sugar alcohol that is an intermediate in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. It is used as a solvent, emollient, pharmaceutical agent, and sweetening agent. Glycerin is commonly classified as an osmotic laxative but may act additionally or alternatively through its local irritant effects; it may also have lubricating and fecal softening actions. Glycerin suppositories usually work within 15 to 30 minutes. When administered rectally, glycerin exerts a hygroscopic and/or local irritant action, drawing water from the tissues into the feces and reflexively stimulating evacuation.
Glycerin decreases intraocular pressure by creating an osmotic gradient between the blood and intraocular fluid, causing fluid to move out of the aqueous and vitreous humors into the bloodstream. Well absorbed orally, poorly absorbed rectally. Studies in humans and animals indicate glycerol is rapidly absorbed in the intestine and the stomach Glycerin is distributed throughout the blood. Although glycerin generally does not appear in ocular fluids, it may enter the orbital sac when the eye is inflamed, with a consequent decrease in osmotic effect. Glycerin is a substrate for synthesis of triacylglycerols and of phospholipids in the liver and adipose tissue. When fat metabolized as a source of energy, glycerol and fatty acids are released into the bloodstream. Circulating glycerin does not glycate proteins and does not lead to the formation of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs). In some organisms, the glycerin component can enter the glycolysis pathway directly to provide a substrate for energy or glucose production. Glycerol must be converted to their intermediate glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate before being used in glycolysis or gluconeogenesis. Glycerol metabolism is regulated by the enzymes glycerol kinase, (cytosolic) NAD+-dependent G3P dehydrogenase and (mitochondrial) FAD-linked G3P dehydrogenase. Approx 7-14% of dose is excreted unchanged in the urine within 2.5 hr. 30 - 45 minutes Glycerol has very low toxicity when ingested ;
Rat LD50 (oral)-12600mg/kg
Mice LD50 (oral )-4090mg/kg
Dequalinium | DrugBank Online Dequalinium is a quaternary ammonium cation that contains two quaternary quinolinium units linked by an N-decylene chain. It is an antiseptic and disinfectant agent with a broad bactericidal and fungicidal activity. It is most commonly available as a dichloride salt but is available as other various salts as well. It is used in wound dressings and mouth infections and may also have antifungal action, but may associate with skin ulceration. Dequalinium chloride is used as an active ingredient in tablets as Fluomizin for vaginal bacterial infections and in topical bacteriostat formulation as Dequadin. It has been studied for use in treatment of malaria and acute promyelocytic leukemia. Its multiple mode of action is thought to reduce the risk of resistance of pathogens. Effective local treatment as vaginal tablets for infections such as fluor vaginalis, bacterial vaginosis, aerobic vaginitis, vulvo-vaginal candidiasis and trichomoniasis. Used as a topical antimicrobial agent.  Dequalinium is an antimicrobial against Gram negative and positive bacteria, yeast and protozoa. It primarily mediates this action by increasing the cell permeability with subsequent loss of enzyme activity under a rapid bactericidal and fungicidal action. The enzymatic inactivation initially might be reversible but becomes irreversible after a longer contact time between the drug and bacteria 1. The bactericidal and fungicidal effect of dequalinium chloride has been demonstrated to occur within 30–60 min 7. Dequalinium targets a broad spectrum of microorganisms including aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, as well as Candida species.  Dequalinium has a multiple mode of action. It disrupts the cell permeability of the bacteria by absorbing onto the bacterial cell surface and diffusing across the membrane. It also binds to the cytoplasmic membrane with subsequent formation of complexes and protein precipitation and lyses the membrane in adequate concentrations, perturbing osmotic exchange. Loss of normal enzymatic activity is achieved through several different processes. Denaturation of proteins results in inhibition of bacterial cell metabolism. Disruption of bacterial energy production is mediated through inhibition of glucose metabolism and inhibition of mitochondrial ATP synthesis via inhibition of bacterial F1-ATPase. Protein synthesis is also terminated at the level of ribosomes. Bacterial nucleic acids are also affected through direct binding of the drug to DNA in vitro, and precipitation of cytoplasmic material with nucleic acids being the most sensitive 1.
The cationic form of dequalinium accumulates in the mitochondria and promotes anticancer activity in human leukemia cells. It mediates a cytotoxic effect by altering redox balance in cells and downregulating Raf/MEK/ERK1/2 and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways in these cells which leads to cell death by apoptosis and/or necrosis 3,4,5.
Inosine | DrugBank Online A purine nucleoside that has hypoxanthine linked by the N9 nitrogen to the C1 carbon of ribose. It is an intermediate in the degradation of purines and purine nucleosides to uric acid and in pathways of purine salvage. It also occurs in the anticodon of certain transfer RNA molecules. (Dorland, 28th ed) The primary popular claim made for inosine, that it enhances exercise and athletic performance, is refuted by the available research data. There is some preliminary evidence that inosine may have some neurorestorative, anti-inflammatory, immunomodulatory and cardioprotective effects. Inosine may have neuroprotective, cardioprotective, anti-inflammatory and immunomodulatory activities. Inosine has been found to have potent axon-promoting effects in vivo following unilateral transection of the corticospinal tract of rats. The mechanism of this action is unclear. Possibilities include serving as an agonist of a nerve growth factor-activated protein kinase (N-Kinase), conversion to cyclic nucleotides that enable advancing nerve endings to overcome the inhibitory effects of myelin, stimulation of differentiation in rat sympathetic neurons, augmentation of nerve growth factor-induced neuritogenesis and promotion of the survival of astrocytes, among others. The mechanism of inosine's possible cardioprotective effect is similarly unclear. Inosine has been reported to have a positive inotropic effect and also to have mild coronary vasodilation activity. Exogenous inosine may contribute to the high-energy phosphate pool of cardiac muscle cells and favorably affect bioenergetics generally. Inosine has also been reported to enhance the myocardial uptake of carbohydrates relative to free fatty acids as well as glycolysis. In cell culture studies, inosine has been found to inhibit the production, in immunostimulated macrophages and spleen cells, of the proinflammatory cytokines, tumor necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha, interleukin (IL)-1, interleukin (IL)-12, macrophage-inflammatory protein-1 alpha and interferon (IFN)-gamma. It also suppressed proinflammatory cytokine production and mortality in a mouse endotoxemic model. These actions might account for the possible immunomodulatory, anti-inflammatory and anti-ischemic actions of inosine. Ingested inosine is absorbed from the small intestine. In the liver, inosine may be catabolized by a series of reactions culminating in the production of uric acid and also may be metabolized to adenine- and guanine-containing nucleotides. Inosine not metabolized in the liver is transported via the systemic circulation and distributed to various tissues of the body, where it is metabolized in similar fashion as in the liver. Uric acid, the purine end-product of inosine catabolism, is excreted in the urine. U.S. Patent 3,049,536
Carbocisteine | DrugBank Online Carbocisteine is a mucolytic that reduces the viscosity of sputum to relieve the symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) and bronchiectasis through easier expulsion of mucus. Carbocisteine should not be used with antitussives (cough suppressants) or medicines that dry up bronchial secretions as they are functional antagonists. Carbocisteine is produced by alkylation of cysteine with chloroacetic acid. Used to help relieve the symptoms of chronic obstructive pulmonary disorder (COPD) and bronchiectasis. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Maierhofer, A. and Wagner, H.: US. Patent 4,129,593; December 12,1978: assigned to
Polyethylene glycol 400 | DrugBank Online Polyethylene glycols (PEGs) are products made of condensed ethylene oxide and water that can contain various derivatives and have various functions. Because many PEG types are hydrophilic, they are favorably used as enhancers of penetration, and used heavily in topical dermatological preparations. PEGs, along with their many nonionic derivatives, are widely utilized in cosmetic products as surfactants, emulsifiers, cleansing agents, humectants, and skin conditioners.9 Polyethylene glycol 400 (PEG 400) is a low-molecular-weight grade of polyethylene glycol with a low-level toxicity. It is very hydrophilic, which renders it a useful ingredient in drug formulations to augment the solubility and bioavailability of weakly water-soluble drugs. It is used in ophthalmic solutions for the relief of burning, irritation and/or discomfort that follows dryness of the eye 7. PEG "400" indicates that the average molecular weight of the specific PEG is 400 10. PEGylation occurs when PEGs are attached to numerous protein medications, allowing for greater solubility for selected drugs. Examples of PEGylated medications are PEG-interferon alpha (Pegintron) and PEG-filgrastim. In addition, PEG is available as a bowel preparation for colonoscopy procedures and as a laxative 10. PEG-400 has been indicated for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye, and
for protection against further irritation and desiccation 14, 15, 16. PEG, when used as PEG-400 for eye lubrication provides relief of dry eye symptoms and prevents further irritation, thus protecting the eye from injury 15. PEG allows comfortable eye drop/natural tear instillation by offering improved spreading of the drop over the ocular surface with diminished blurring 14,15. PEG, depending on molecular weight, has various mechanisms of action 4, 5, 6, 7. For the purpose of Peg-400, the mechanism of action on the eye tissues will be the primary focus of discussion.  PEG-400 is considered a lacrimomimetic, or a synthetic ocular lubricant that improves one or more components of the lacrimal film by augmenting the tear volume and stability and by protecting the eye surface against desiccation 16. Hydroxypropyl-guar (HPG) is used along with polyethylene glycol 400 (PEG) and propylene glycol (PG) as a gelling agent that conforms to abnormalities of the tear film and existing irregularities on the ocular surface 16. PEG provides lubrication and acts as a surfactant by coating the eye and interacting with propylene glycol and other solutions that help to act as surfactants on the eye mucosa 15. This allows for long-lasting, soothing effects 15. Recent studies involving nanoparticle drug delivery have demonstrated that PEG can achieve sustained drug delivery. The delivery of drugs to mucosal surfaces is a significant challenge due to the presence of the protective mucus layer that acts to trap and quickly remove foreign particles. Nanoparticles designed to rapidly cross mucosal barriers (mucus-penetrating particles, “MPP”) have proven promising for augmenting drug distribution, and efficacy at various mucosal surfaces. Mucus- penetrating particles are heavily coated with polyethylene glycol (PEG), protecting the nanoparticle core from adhesion with mucus 17. Polyethylene glycol, when free in solution, may also demonstrate attraction to the surfaces of various types of vesicles, cells or macromolecules, leading to polymer adsorption and subsequently either a repulsion or to an attraction, via bridging, of the surfaces or vesicles—again strongly depending on the temperature, molecular weight, and concentration of the polyethylene glycol. Low molecular weight polyethylene glycol (such as PEG-400) generally promotes cells or vesicles to adhere (depletion attraction), high molecular weight polyethylene glycol causes them to repel 18. PEG has low toxicity profile with an absorption of less than 0.5% 10. Topical absorption of PEG occurs and, demonstrates a molecular weight dependence similar to that of PEG given orally. Absorption by this route is likely to be poor 12. Despite that fact that PEG is believed to be an excellent material to resist protein adsorption, there is a lack of quantitative evidence regarding interactions between proteins and PEG. A study has been performed that suggests that a large number of PEG molecules could associate with protein molecules 3. The metabolism of PEG involves the oxidation of the alcohol groups located on the PEG to a carboxylic acid. For example, the diacid and hydroxyl acid metabolites of PEG have been measured in the plasma and urine of burn patients and rabbits and in the bile of cats. In the isolated guinea pig liver and in rat/guinea pig in vitro, PEG has demonstrated to be sulfated. Evidence from experiments with PEG400 suggests that ethylene glycol is not formed as a metabolite of PEG in humans. Negligible amounts of oxalic acid are liberated after the metabolism of PEG 12. The first phase of metabolism of PEG in mammals is regulated by the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase. Liver cytochorome P450 enzymes may also play a role in the oxidation of PEG, although the evidence for this is not clear 12. Also, PEG has been shown to be metabolized by sulfotransferase enzymes. Although there is evidence that PEG can be metabolized to various phase 1 and phase 2 metabolites, the toxicology data presented above indicate that these metabolites are of very little toxicological concern. However, metabolism of PEG to the acid metabolite(s) has been implicated in the acidosis and hypercalcemia observed in patients after overdose 12. It is clear that these metabolites can be formed in multiple toxicology species and that the phase 1 metabolites are seen in animals and humans. These data indicate that humans and animals will be exposed to similar metabolites after administration of PEG 12. metabolic clearance of PEG decreases markedly as molecular weight increases. For PEG400, up to 25% of the dose may be metabolized in humans (Schaffer et al., 1950); similar results are also seen in the rabbit 12. The absorption of PEG by the oral route is molecular weight- dependent. Urinary recovery data for PEG400 indicate that 50 to 60% of PEG with this molecular weight is absorbed from the intestine 12. In the case of PEG-400, up to 25% of the dose may be metabolized in humans. Similar results have also been obtained in studies on the rabbit 12. Human excretion studies have demonstrated that 86% and 96% of PEG1000 and 6000 were excreted in the urine 12 h after intravenous administration. Specific data on PEG-400 are not available 12. In rats, urine PEG undergoes biliary excretion, and this process is depending on molecular weight, with hepatic clearance reaching a minimum at about 50 kDa molecular mass (in mouse)12. Great than 24h 11. In mice, lease than <10 % of the administered dose was cleared by the liver 12.  PEG of different molecular weights by a range of routes has been studied extensively, and has not led to any major toxicities, and signs/symptoms of toxicity that do occur are only observed at a much higher than therapeutic dose 12. LD50 = 157000 mg/kg, intragastric, guinea pigs MSDS
LD50 = 28915 mg/kg, intragastric, mice, rats MSDS
LD50 = 9708 mg/kg, intra-abdominal, rats MSDS
Latamoxef | DrugBank Online Latamoxef is a broad- spectrum beta-lactam antibiotic similar in structure to the cephalosporins except for the substitution of an oxaazabicyclo moiety for the thiaazabicyclo moiety of certain cephalosporins. It has been proposed especially for the meningitides because it passes the blood-brain barrier and for anaerobic infections. Latamoxef is an oxacephem antibiotic usually grouped with the cephalosporins. It is used to treat bacterial infections. Latamoxef is primarily indicated in conditions like Bone and joint infection, GI infections, Gynecological infections, Meningitis, Respiratory tract infections, Septicaemia, Skin infections, Soft tissue infections, UTI.  Latamoxef works by inhibiting bacterial cell wall biosynthesis. Penicillins acylate the penicillin-sensitive transpeptidase C-terminal domain (the penicillin-binding protein) by opening the lactam ring. This inactivation of the enzyme prevents the formation of a cross-link of two linear peptidoglycan strands, inhibiting the third and last stage of bacterial cell wall synthesis. Cell lysis is then mediated by bacterial cell wall autolytic enzymes such as autolysins; it is possible that amoxicllin interferes with an autolysin inhibitor. Rapidly absorbed after oral administration. 8.51 L 40% Renal Excretion accounts for 75 %  1.6 hours Latamoxef produces potentially life-threatening effects which include Bleeding, Hypothrombinemia, Platelet dysfunctioning. which are responsible for the discontinuation of Latamoxef therapy.
Bifonazole | DrugBank Online Bifonazole is an azole antifungal drug. Used for the treatment of various topical fungal infections, including athlete's foot (tinea pedis). Bifonazole is a type of antifungal medicine known as an imidazole. It kills fungi and yeasts by interfering with their cell membranes. Bifonazole works by inhibiting the production of a substance called ergosterol, which is an essential component of fungal cell membranes.It acts to destabilize the fungal cyctochrome p450 51 enzyme (also known as Lanosterol 14-alpha demethylase). This is vital in the cell membrance structure of the fungus. Its inhibition leads to cell lysis. The disruption in production of ergosterol disrupts the cell membrane and causes holes to appear. The cell membranes of fungi are vital for their survival. They keep unwanted substances from entering the cells and stop the contents of the cells from leaking out. As bifonazole causes holes to appear in the cell membranes, essential constituents of the fungal cells can leak out. This kills the fungi. Very low absorption following topical administration (0.6% of an applied dose). In cases of skin lesions absorption is increased (2.5%). Hepatic. 1-2 hours Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Regal, E., Draber, W., Buchel, K.H.and Plempel, M.; U.S. Patent 4,118,487; October 3,1978;
Benoxaprofen | DrugBank Online The use of benoxaprofen, formerly marketed as Oraflex tablets, was associated with fatal cholestatic jaundice among other serious adverse reactions. The holder of the approved application voluntarily withdrew Oraflex tablets from the market on August 5, 1982. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Evans, D., Dunwell, D.W. and Hicks, A.; US. Patent 3,912, 18; October 14, 1975; assigned to Lilly Industries Ltd.
Evans, D., Dunwell, D.W. and Hicks, T.A.; U.S. Patent 3,962,441; June 8, 1976; assigned to
Lilly Industries, Ltd.
Evans, D., Dunwell, D.W. and Hicks, T.A.; US. Patent 3,962,452; June 8, 1976; assigned to
Amineptine | DrugBank Online The Food and Drug Administration suspended the marketing authorisation for Survector in 1999 and France withdrew it from the market, however several developing countries continued to produce it up until 2005. For the treatment of depression. Amineptine is an atypical tricyclic antidepressant. Amineptine selectively inhibits the reuptake of dopamine and to a lesser extent norepinephrine, thus exerting a powerful and fast-acting antidepressant effect. Hepatic. 48 minutes for the parent drug and 2.5 hours for the metabolites. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Melen,C., Danree, B.and Poignant, J.C.; US.Patent 3,758,528; September 11,1973; assigned to Societe en nom Collectif Science Union et Cie; Societe Francaise de Recherche Medicale.
Clofedanol | DrugBank Online Clofedanol is a centrally-acting cough suppressant available in Canada under the trade name Ulone. It is not available in the United States. Used in the treatment of dry cough. Chlophedianol (or Clofedanol) is a centrally-acting cough suppressant. It has local anesthetic and antihistamine properties, and may have anticholinergic effects at high doses. Suppresses the cough reflex by a direct effect on the cough center in the medulla of the brain. Hepatic. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Lorenz, R., Gosswald, R. and Henecka, H.; US. Patent 3,031,377; April 24, 1962; assigned
Cyclandelate | DrugBank Online A direct-acting smooth muscle relaxant used to dilate blood vessels. It may cause gastrointestinal distress and tachycardia. Cyclandelate is not approved for use in the U.S. or Canada, but is approved in various European countries. Used in the treatment of various blood vessel diseases (e.g., claudication, arteriosclerosis and Raynaud's disease) and nighttime leg cramps. Cyclandelate is in a class of drugs called vasodilators. Cyclandelate relaxes veins and arteries, which makes them wider and allows blood to pass through them more easily. Cyclandelate produces peripheral vasodilation by a direct effect on vascular smooth muscle. Pharmacological action may be due to calcium-channel antagonism. Well absorbed following oral administration. Acute oral toxicity (LD50): 3950 mg/kg [Guinea pig] Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Nauta, W.T.; U.S. Patent 2,707,193; April 26,1955; assigned to N.V. Koninklijke Pharmaceutische Fabrieken Voorbeen Brocades Stheeman & Pharmacia, Netherlands.
Flitter, D.; U.S. Patent 3,663,597; May 16, 1972; assigned to American Home Products
Flunarizine | DrugBank Online Flunarizine is a selective calcium entry blocker with calmodulin binding properties and histamine H1 blocking activity. It is effective in the prophylaxis of migraine, occlusive peripheral vascular disease, vertigo of central and peripheral origin, and as an adjuvant in the therapy of epilepsy. Used in the prophylaxis of migraine, occlusive peripheral vascular disease, vertigo of central and peripheral origin, and as an adjuvant in the therapy of epilepsy. Flunarizine is a selective calcium entry blocker with calmodulin binding properties and histamine H1 blocking activity. Flunarizine inhibits the influx of extracellular calcium through myocardial and vascular membrane pores by physically plugging the channel. The decrease in intracellular calcium inhibits the contractile processes of smooth muscle cells, causing dilation of the coronary and systemic arteries, increased oxygen delivery to the myocardial tissue, decreased total peripheral resistance, decreased systemic blood pressure, and decreased afterload. 85% following oral administration. 99% bound to plasma proteins Hepatic, to two metabolites via N-dealylation and hydroxylation. Hover over products below to view reaction partners 18 days -Flunarizine should be used with care in patients with depression or those being prescribed other agents, such as phenothiazines, concurrently, which may cause extrapyramidal side-effects.
-Acute overdosage has been reported and the observed symptoms were sedation, agitation and tachycardia.
Mepenzolate | DrugBank Online Mepenzolate is a post-ganglionic parasympathetic inhibitor. It decreases gastric acid and pepsin secretion and suppresses spontaneous contractions of the colon. Mepenzolate diminishes gastric acid and pepsin secretion. Mepenzolate also suppresses spontaneous contractions of the colon. Pharmacologically, it is a post-ganglionic parasympathetic inhibitor. It has not been shown to be effective in contributing to the healing of peptic ulcer, decreasing the rate of recurrence, or preventing complications. For use as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of peptic ulcer. It has not been
shown to be effective in contributing to the healing of peptic ulcer, decreasing the rate of recurrence, or preventing complications. Mepenzolate diminishes gastric acid and pepsin secretion. Mepenzolate also suppresses spontaneous contractions of the colon. Pharmacologically, it is a post-ganglionic parasympathetic inhibitor. Mepenzolate is a post-ganglionic parasympathetic inhibitor. It specifically antagonizes muscarinic receptors. This leads to decreases in gastric acid and pepsin secretion and suppression of spontaneous contractions of the colon. Between 3 and 22% of an orally administered dose is excreted in the urine over a 5-day period, with the majority of the radioactivity appearing on Day 1. The remainder appears in the next 5 days in the feces and presumably has not been absorbed. Between 3 and 22% of an orally administered dose is excreted in the urine over a 5-day period, with the majority of the radioactivity appearing on Day 1. The signs and symptoms of overdosage are headache; nausea; vomiting; blurred vision; dilated pupils; hot, dry skin; dizziness; dryness of the mouth; difficulty in swallowing; and CNS stimulation. A curare-like action may occur (i.e., neuromuscular blockade leading to muscular weakness and possible
Tetrabenazine | DrugBank Online A drug formerly used as an antipsychotic but now used primarily in the symptomatic treatment of various hyperkinetic disorders. It is a monoamine depletor and used as symptomatic treatment of chorea associated with Huntington's disease. FDA approved on August 15, 2008. Treatment of hyperkinetic movement disorders like chorea in Huntington's disease, hemiballismus, senile chorea, Tourette syndrome and other tic disorders, and tardive dyskinesia  Prolongation of the QTc interval has been observed at doses of 50 mg. In rats, it has been observed that tetrabenazine or its metabolites bind to melanin-containing tissues such as the eyes and skin. After a single oral dose of radiolabeled tetrabenazine, radioactivity was still detected in eye and fur at 21 days post dosing.  Tetrabenazine is a reversible human vesicular monoamine transporter type 2 inhibitor (Ki = 100 nM). It acts within the basal ganglia and promotes depletion of monoamine neurotransmitters serotonin, norepinephrine, and dopamine from stores. It also decreases uptake into synaptic vesicles. Dopamine is required for fine motor movement, so the inhibition of its transmission is efficacious for hyperkinetic movement. Tetrabenazine exhibits weak in vitro binding affinity at the dopamine D2 receptor (Ki = 2100 nM). Following oral administration of tetrabenazine, the extent of absorption is at least 75%. After single oral doses ranging from 12.5 to 50 mg, plasma concentrations of tetrabenazine are generally below the limit of detection because of the rapid and extensive hepatic metabolism of tetrabenazine. Food does not affect the absorption of tetrabenazine.
Cmax, oral = 4.8 ng/mL in HD or tardive dyskinesia patients;
Tmax, oral = 69 min in HD or tardive dyskinesia patients Steady State, IV, in HD or tardive dyskinesia patients: 385L.
Tetrabenazine is rapidly distributed to the brain following IV injection. The site with the highest binding is the striatum, while the lowest binding was observed in the cortex.  Tetrabenazine = 82 - 88%;
α-HTBZ = 60 - 68%;
β-HTBZ = 59 - 63%.  Tetrabenazine is hepatically metabolized. Carbonyl reductase in the liver is responsible for the formation of two major active metabolites: α-dihydrotetrabenazine (α-HTBZ) and β-dihydrotetrabenazine (β-HTBZ). α-HTBZ is further metabolized into 9-desmethyl-α-DHTBZ, a minor metabolite by CYP2D6 and with some contribution of CYP1A2. β-HTBZ is metabolized to another major circulating metabolite, 9-desmethyl-β-DHTBZ, by CYP2D6. The Tmax of this metabolite is 2 hours post-administration of tetrabenazine.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners After oral administration, tetrabenazine is extensively hepatically metabolized, and the metabolites are primarily renally eliminated (75%). Tetrabenazine is also cleared fecally (7% to 16%). Unchanged tetrabenazine has not been found in human urine. Urinary excretion of α-HTBZ or β-HTBZ (the major metabolites) accounted for less than 10% of the administered dose. α-HTBZ = 7 hours;
β-HTBZ = 5 hours;
9-desmethyl-β-DHTBZ = 12 hours.  IV, 1.67 L/min in HD or tardive dyskinesia patients  Dose-limiting adverse effects are sedation, parkinsonism, akathsia, and depression.
Celiprolol | DrugBank Online Celiprolol is indicated for the management of mild to moderate hypertension and effort-induced angina pectoris. It is simultaneously a selective β1 receptor antagonist, a β2 receptor partial agonist and a weak α2 receptor antagonist. In 2010 a clinical trial has suggested a use for this medication in the prevention of vascular complications of a rare inherited disease called vascular Ehlers–Danlos syndrome. This study demonstrated decreased incidence of arterial rupture or dissection (a specific type of arterial rupture in which the layers of the vessel separate prior to complete failure of the artery wall). Celiprolol is not approved for use by the FDA in the treatment of vascular Ehlers–Danlos syndrome. Celiprolol is indicated for the management of mild to moderate hypertension and effort-induced angina pectoris.  Celiprolol is a vasoactive beta-1 selective adrenoceptor antagonist with partial beta-2 agonist activity. The beta-2 agonist activity is thought to account for its mild vasodilating properties. It lowers blood pressure in hypertensive patients at rest and on exercise. The effects on heart rate and cardiac output are dependent on the pre-existing background level of sympathetic tone.
Under conditions of stress such as exercise, celiprolol attenuates chronotropic and inotropic responses to sympathetic stimulation. However, at rest minimal impairment of cardiac function is seen.  Absorption of an oral dose is rapid and consistent but incomplete (55% for 200 mg dose and 74% for 400 mg dose) from the gastrointestinal tract. The bioavailability of celiprolol has been shown to be markedly affected by food and one should avoid administration of celiprolol with food. Coadministration of chlorthalidone, hydrochlorothiazide and theophylline also reduces the bioavailability of celiprolol. Following oral dosing, maximal blood concentrations are reached between 2 and 3 hours. The distribution volume is 4.5L/kg. Celiprolol is hydrophilic and does not cross the blood-brain barrier. The binding to plasma proteins is about 25-30%.  25-30%.  A 14C labelled dose was completely recovered within 48 hours. The first-pass effect in the liver is insignificant. Celiprolol is metabolized to a minor extent (1-3%).  5 hours Cleared by both renal and non-renal excretory pathways. Celiprolol is not recommended for patients with creatinine clearance less than 15 mL per minute.  No data are available regarding celiprolol overdose in humans. The most common symptoms to be expected following overdosage with beta-adrenoceptor blocking agents are bradycardia, hypotension, bronchospasm and acute cardiac insufficiency.  Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Zolss, G., Pittner, H., Stormann-Menninger-Lerchenthal, H. and Lindner, I.; US. Patent
Febuxostat | DrugBank Online Febuxostat is a xanathine oxidase (XO) inhibitor indicated in patients with gout suffering from hyperuricemia and is used in its chronic management. Febuxostat is not recommended for the treatment of asymptomatic hyperuricemia. Febuxostat is marketed under the trade name Uloric by Takeda Pharmaceuticals America, Inc., and was approved by the FDA in February 2009. For the treatment of hyperuricemia in patients with gout. Febuxostat (ULORIC) is a novel, xanthine oxidase/dehydrogenase (XO/XDH) inhibitor being developed by Teijin, TAP Pharmaceuticals, and Ipsen for the treatment of gout. The currently available XO inhibitor, allopurinol, has been associated with serious instances of severe hypersensitivity, in some cases leading to fatalities. There is some suggestion that febuxostat is less prone to excacerbate systemic inflammatory events in animal studies. Febuxostat, a xanthine oxidase inhibitor, achieves its therapeutic effect by decreasing serum uric acid. Febuxostat is not expected to inhibit other enzymes involved in purine and pyrimidine synthesis and metabolism at therapeutic concentrations. >49% The mean apparent steady state volume of distribution (Vss/F) of febuxostat was approximately 50 L (CV ~40%) 99.2% Febuxostat is extensively metabolized by both conjugation via uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) enzymes including UGT1A1, UGT1A3, UGT1A9, and UGT2B7 and oxidation via cytochrome P450 (CYP) enzymes including CYP1A2, 2C8 and 2C9 and non-P450 enzymes. The relative contribution of each enzyme isoform in the metabolism of febuxostat is not clear. The oxidation of the isobutyl side chain leads to the formation of four pharmacologically active hydroxy metabolites, all of which occur in plasma of humans at a much lower extent than febuxostat.
Omacetaxine mepesuccinate | DrugBank Online Omacetaxine mepesuccinate (formerly known as HHT or Homoharringtonine), is a cephalotaxine ester and protein synthesis inhibitor with established clinical activity as a single agent in hematological malignancies. Omacetaxine mepesuccinate is synthesized from cephalotaxine, which is an extract from the leaves of the plant, Cephalotaxus species. In October 2005, omacetaxine mepesuccinate received Orphan Drug designation from the EMEA for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Then in March 2006, it received Orphan Drug status from the FDA for the treatment of CML. In November 2006, omacetaxine mepesuccinate, for the treatment of CML, was granted Fast Track designation by the FDA. Most recently, in October 2012, omacetaxine mepesuccinate was marketed under the brand name Synribo and FDA approved for patients who are intolerant and/or resistant to two or more tyrosine kinase inhibitors used to treat accelerated or chronic phase CML. Used in patients who are intolerant and/or resistant to two or more tyrosine kinase inhibitors used to treat accelerated or chronic phase CML.  The pharmacodynamics of homoharringtonine is not fully understood. It is known that homoharringtonine is involved
Lorcaserin | DrugBank Online Lorcaserin (previously APD-356), a highly selective 5HT2C receptor agonist, is used for the treatment of obesity. It has been shown to reduce body weight and food intake in animal models of obesity, and it is thought that targeting the 5HT2C receptor may alter body weight by regulating satiety. Lorcaserin is marketed as a salt form called Belviq, which is lorcaserin hydrochloride. For the treatment of obesity, as an adjunct to a reduced-calorie diet and increased physical activity. Lorcaserin produced a dose-dependent weight loss over a 12-week period by promoting satiety and decreasing food consumption. Although the exact mechanism is unknown, it is believed to involve the selective activation of 5-HT2C receptors in the anorexigenic pro-opiomelanocortin neurons in the arcuate nucleus of the hypothalamus. This results in decreased food intake and satiety by promoting the release of alpha-melanocortin stimulating hormone, which acts on melanocortin-4 receptors. Lorcaserin has a peak plasma concentration of about 1.5 - 2 hours, but the bioavailability was not determined. The volume of distribution was not determined, but lorcaserin distributes to the central nervous system and cerebrospinal fluid.  Lorcaserin hydrochloride has a plasma protein binding of approximately 70%. Lorcaserin has extensive hepatic metabolism producing inactive compounds. Lorcaserin sulfamate (M1) is the major metabolite circulating in the plasma, and N-carbamoyl glucuronide lorcaserin (M5) is the major metabolite in urine. Other minor metabolites that are both excreted in urine are glucuronide or sulfate conjugates.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Lorcaserin is eliminated by hepatic metabolism, and the metabolites are eliminated mostly in the urine (92.3%) and some through feces (2.2%).  The plasma half life is approximately 11 hours. The clearance value was not determined. Most common adverse reactions include hypoglycemia (diabetic patients), headache,
Voacamine | DrugBank Online Voacamine is an alkaloid isolated from the bark of the Pescheria fuchsiae folia tree. It is an antimalarial drug approved for use in several African countries. Voacamine is also under investigation for use in modulating multidrug-resistance in tumor cells. For the treatment of malaria. Also under investigation for the modulation of multidrug resistance in cancer cells. Voacamine is an anti-malarial extracted from the Brazilian tree Peschiera fuchsiaefolia. In one study (PMID: 11180519), the in vivo antiplasmodial activity of voacamine was assessed in a 4-day test. It was shown to exhibit in vivo activity with 25.4% and 43.4% inhibition of parasitaemia with 2.5 and 10 mg/kg, respectively. In synchronized cultures, it was found to act on trophozoite and schizont stages of Plasmodium falciparum.
Bepotastine | DrugBank Online Bepotastine is a non-sedating, selective antagonist of the histamine 1 (H1) receptor. Bepotastine was approved in Japan for use in the treatment of allergic rhinitis and uriticaria/puritus in July 2000 and January 2002, respectively, and is marketed by Tanabe Seiyaku Co., Ltd. under the brand name Talion. It is available in oral and opthalmic dosage forms in Japan. The opthalmic solution is FDA approved since Sept 8, 2009 and is under the brand name Bepreve. For the symptomatic treatment of itchy eyes (caused by IgE-induced mast cell degranulation) due to allergic conjunctivitis. Bepotastine is a non-sedating, selective antagonist of the histamine 1 (H1) receptor. It belongs to the second-generation piperidine chemical class. It is a mast cell stabilizer and suppresses the migration of eosinophils into inflamed tissues. Furthermore, bepotastine does not interact with serotonin, muscarinic, benzodiazepine, and beta-adrenergic receptor that would otherwise result in adverse reactions such as dry mouth or sonmolence.
Onset of action = 0.25 hours;
Duration of action = 12-24 hours;  Because of a type 1 hypersensitivity reaction cascade that is triggered by antigen exposure, allergic conjunctivitis occurs. Allergen exposure is followed by conjunctival mast cell degranulation and histamine released as a result of the formation of complementary IgE cross-links on the conjunctiva. Due to the release of histamine, symptoms such as itching can be observed. Bepotastine works to relieve itchy eyes by three primary mechanisms of action. It is a non-sedating, selective antagonist of the histamine 1 (H1) receptor, a mast cell stabilizer, and it suppresses the migration of eosinophils into inflamed tissues to prevent tissue damage and worsening of allergic inflammation of the conjunctiva.  Tmax, after single dose, opthalmic = 1.2 hours;
Cmax, 1.5%, opthalmic dose = 7.3 ±1.9 ng/mL;
Lucinactant | DrugBank Online Lucinactant is a new synthetic peptide-containing surfactant for intratracheal use. It contains sinapultide, a novel, hydrophobic, 21-amino acid peptide (leucine and lysine repeating units, KL4 peptide) designed to mimic human surfactant protein-B (SB-P). More specifically, it mimics the C-terminal amphipathic helical domain of this protein. It also consists of phospholipids (dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine, DPPC and palmitoyloleoyl phosphatidylglycerol, POPG) and a fatty acid (palmitic acid). It is completely devoid of animal-derived components. FDA approved on March 6, 2012. Intended for the prevention of respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) in premature infants at high risk for RDS.  Lucinactant is a new synthetic surfactant containing a protein that mimics human surfactant protein-B, is effective at preventing respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) and related complications in preterm infants. Lucinactant has been shown to have antiinflammatory properties, is resistant to proteolytic degradation and oxidation, and has no potential for transmitting animal-derived diseases. Lucinactant has proven safe and effective in the prevention of RDS in preterm infants and as a treatment for MAS in full-term infants and for adult ARDS. Pulmonary surfactant is a lipoprotein complex that is produced naturally in the lungs, where it lines the alveolar epithelium and serves to reduce surface tension, which facilitates alveoli expansion and allows gas exchange. Human surfactants contain phospholipids, predominantly dipalmitoylphosphatidylcholine (DPPC), in addition to surfactant proteins A, B, C and D. Surfactant is also a physical barrier to inhaled particle and noxious agents, enhances particle clearance, is involved in host defense against infection and possesses antiinflammatory properties. Several serious respiratory disorders have been associated with a loss or lack of endogenous surfactant. Lucinactant was designed to mimic the essential endogenous human surfactant protein B (SP-B).  Most common adverse reactions associated with the use of lucinactant are endotracheal tube reflux, pallor, endotracheal tube obstruction, and need for
Ticagrelor | DrugBank Online Ticagrelor, or AZD6140, was first described in the literature in 2003.4,5 Ticagrelor is an ADP derivative developed for its P2Y12 receptor antagonism.5 Unlike clopidogrel, ticagrelor is not a prodrug.5 It is marketed by Astra Zeneca as Brilinta in the US6 and Brilique or Possia in the EU,7. Ticagrelor was granted EMA approval on 3 December 2010.7
G17DT | DrugBank Online G17DT is a vaccine that neutralises gastrin-17, a hormone required for the growth of a number of cancers of the gastrointestinal tract. It is in phase III trials for advanced pancreatic cancer as a monotherapy and in combination with gemcitabine. It is also in a phase II/III trial for advanced stomach cancer in combination with 5-fluorouracil and cisplatin and in a late phase II trial for advanced colorectal cancer in combination with irinotecan. Intended for the treatment of various forms of cancer. G17DT is a vaccine which neutralizes the gastrin 17 (G17) hormone and glycine-extended gastrin 17. G17 is a growth factor for pancreatic, stomach and colorectal cancers, and a potent stimulator of gastric acid secretion. G17DT consists of a protein carrier (Diptheria Toxoid) and a synthetic peptide which is similar to a portion of the gastrin 17 hormone. These are contained in a 'slow-release' liquid suspension vehicle for intramuscular administration. G17DT is administered by injection, the initial schedule for injection is unclear at present but booster
Gabapentin enacarbil | DrugBank Online Gabapentin enacarbil is marketed under the name Horizant. It is a prodrug of gabapentin, and indicated in adults for the treatment of Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) and postherpetic neuralgia (PHN). For the treatment of adult Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) and postherpetic neuralgia (PHN). Since gabapentin enacarbil is a prodrug of gabapentin, it's physiological effects are the same as gabapentin. Concerning PHN, gabapentin prevents allodynia and hyperalgesia. Although the exact mechanism of action of gabapentin in RLS and PHN is unknown, it is presumed to involve the descending noradrenergic system, resulting in the activation of spinal alpha2-adrenergic receptors.  Gabapentin enacarbil is absorbed in the intestines by active transport through the proton-linked monocarboxylate transporter, MCT-1.  The volume of distribution is 76L. Gabapentin plasma protein binding is less than 3%. Gabapentin enacarbil does not interact with any of the major cytochrome P450
Ospemifene | DrugBank Online Ospemifene is a new selective non-hormonal estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that is used for the treatment of moderate to severe dyspareunia, a symptom of vulvar and vaginal atrophy, due to menopause. FDA approved on February 26, 2013. Ospemifene is used for the treatment of moderate to dyspareunia, a symptom of vulvar and vaginal atrophy, due to menopause. The half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) for estrogen receptor (ER) alpha and beta are 0.8 μM and 1.7 μM, respectively. Ospemifene has potential uses in the management of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women. It interacts with osteoblasts and osteoclasts in such a way that it reduces bone turnover. It also has potential uses in the prevention of breast cancer. Studies suggest that ospemifene, in a dose-dependent manner, reduces the incidence of tumours.  Ospemifene is a next generation SERM (selective estrogen receptor modulator) that selectively binds to estrogen receptors and either stimulates or blocks estrogen's activity in different tissue types. It has an agonistic effect on the endometrium. When a single oral dose of ospemifene 60 mg is given to postmenopausal women under fasted conditions, the pharmacokinetic parameters are as follows:
Tmax = 2 hours (range of 1 - 8 hours);
Cmax = 533 ng/mL;
AUC (0-inf) = 4165 ng•hr/mL.
When the same aforementioned dose is given to postmenopausal women under fed conditions, the pharmacokinetic parameters are as follows:
Tmax = 2.5 hours (1 - 6 hours);
Cmax = 1198 ng/mL;
AUC (0-inf) = 7521 ng•hr/mL.
Accumulation occurs following repeated doses.
Time to steady state = 9 days.
Eribulin | DrugBank Online Eribulin is a microtubule inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer who have previously received at least two chemotherapeutic regimens for the treatment of metastatic disease. Eribulin was isolated from the marine sponge Halichondria okadai. Eribulin is also being investigated for use in the treatment of advanced solid tumors 2. For the treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer who have previously received at least two chemotherapeutic regimens for the treatment of metastatic cancer.  Linear Eribulin inhibits the growth phase of microtubules without affecting the shortening phase and sequesters tubulin into nonproductive aggregates. Eribulin exerts its effects via a tubulin-based antimitotic mechanism leading to G2/M cell-cycle block, disruption of mitotic spindles, and, ultimately, apoptotic cell death after prolonged mitotic blockage. [FDA] 43 L/m2 to 114 L/m2 49 to 65%.  There are no major human metabolites of eribulin, CYP3A4 negligibly metabolizes eribulin in vitro. Eribulin is eliminated primarily in feces unchanged.  about 40 hours 1.16 L/hr/m2 to 2.42 L/hr/m2 (dose range of 0.25 mg/m2 to 4.0 mg/m2). [FDA] Peripheral neuropathy was the most common toxicity leading to discontinuation of eribulin (5 percent). [Richard Pazdur, M.D., director of the FDA's Division of Oncology Drug Products.]
Iloperidone | DrugBank Online Iloperidone is an atypical antipsychotic for the treatment of schizophrenia symptoms. Hoechst Marion Roussel Inc. researched the drug until May 1996. In June 1997 they gave the research rights to Titan Pharmaceuticals, who gave the worldwide development, manufacturing, and marketing rights to Novartis in August 1998. On June 9, 2004, Titan Pharmaceuticals gave the Phase III development rights to Vanda Pharmaceuticals. FDA approved on May 9, 2009. Treatment of acute schizophrenia.  Iloperidone shows high affinity and maximal receptor occupancy for dopamine D2 receptors in the caudate nucleus and putamen of the brains of schizophrenic patients. The improvement in cognition is attributed to iloperidone's high affinity for α adrenergic receptors. Iloperidone also binds with high affinity to serotonin 5-HT2a and dopamine 3 receptors. Iloperidone binds with moderate affinity to dopamine D4, serotonin 5-HT6 and 5-HT7, and norepinephrine NEα1 receptors. Furthermore, iloperidone binds with weak affinity to serotonin 5-HT1A, dopamine D1, and histamine H1 receptors.  Iloperidone is a dopamine D2 and 5-HT2A receptor antagonist and acts as a neuroleptic agent.  Well absorbed from the GI tract and Cmax is reached within 2-4 hours.
Ezogabine | DrugBank Online Ezogabine (D23129) is a close structural analog of the centrally acting analgesic flupitrine. It is a neuronal potassium channel opener being developed as a first-in-class antiepileptic drug (AED) and is currently being studied in Phase 3 trials as an adjunctive treatment for partial-onset seizures in adult patients with refractory epilepsy. FDA approved in June 10, 2011 under the name of ezogabine. Adjuvant treatment of partial-onset seizures.  As compared to other antiepileptic agents, ezogabine is unique in that it selectively activates potassium ion channels Kv 7.2-Kv7.5 and not cardiac Kv 7.1, thereby avoiding cardiac side effects. The antiepileptics, as a drug class, are routinely used in the treatment of a number of disease states in addition to epilepsy. Ezogabine is highly efficacious in a broad-spectrum of in vivo epilepsy and seizure models. A comparison of antiepileptic form activity of ezogabine with that of conventional anticonvulsants in in vitro models suggests that retigabine is especially likely to be useful in the treatment of pharmacoresistant epilepsy. Retigabine clearly attenuates pain-like behaviors in various animal models of neuropathic pain; it may also prove to be useful in treatment of clinical anxiety disorders. Clinical data obtained thus far indicate that retigabine is well tolerated in humans when titrated up to its therapeutic dose range. No tolerance, drug dependence, or withdrawal liability has been reported. Thus, retigabine may prove to be useful in the treatment of a diverse range of disease states in which neuronal hyperexcitability is a common underlying factor. Ezogabine has a novel mechanism of action that involves opening of neuronal Kv7.2-7.5 (formerly KCNQ2-5) voltage activated potassium channels. These channels (primarily Kv7.2/7.3) enable generation of the M-current, a sub-threshold potassium current that serves to stabilize the membrane potential and control neuronal excitability. In addition to acting on potassium ion channels, retigabine also affects GABA neurotransmission in the GABA-A receptor, which is a key inhibitory receptor in the central nervous system and is implicated in epilepsy. Malfunctioning of the GABA-A receptor leads to hyperexcitability in the brain, which causes seizures, making this receptor an important target for antiepileptic therapeutics. Apart from increasing the concentration of GABA in the brain (by either enhancing GABA synthesis or blocking GABA metabolism), retigabine allosterically potentiates GABA-induced current in rat cortical neurons in a concentration-dependent manner. Numerous studies have demonstrated that retigabine is effective in a broad spectrum of in vivo epilepsy and seizure models. Rapidly absorbed and distributed, with an absolute oral bioavailability of 60%. Pharmacokinetics of ezogabine suggest first-order kinetics.
Tmax, single oral dose = 30-120 minutes;
Time to steady state = 3 days  8.7 L/kg  Approximately 80% protein bound.  Ezogabine is metabolized exclusively via phase II hepatic N-glucurodination and acetylation. N-glucurodination is the major metabolic pathway of the two and form two major N-glucuronide metabolites. The enzymes involved are UGT1A1, 1A9, 1A4, and 1A3. However, the product of the N-acetyl pathway is a weak, active metabolite referred to as NAMR. The enzyme that is involved in the N-acetyl pathway is called N-acetyltransferase 2. The pharmacokinetics of NAMR and ezogabine are similar. The cytochrome P450 enzyme system is not involved with the metabolism of ezogabine.  Urine (85%, 36% of total dose as unchanged drug, 18% of total dose as NAMR) and feces (14%, 3% of total dose as unchanged drug)  Terminal half-life = 7.5 hours  0.58 - 0.76 L/h·kg. Clearance may differ between ethnic groups with Black Americans having 20% lower clearance than Caucasian Americans.  Lethal Dose, acute, oral, rat = 100 mg/kg;
Lethal Dose, chronic, oral, rat = 5.1 mg/kg/day, 90-day;
M40403 | DrugBank Online M40403 is a low molecular weight, synthetic manganese containing superoxide dismutase mimetic (SODm) that selectively removes superoxide anion. Intended for the treatment of pain and possibly various forms of cancer. M40403 treatment exerts a protective effect against ischaemia-reperfusion-induced myocardial injury, supporting a key role for superoxide anion in reperfusion injuries. M40403 is the lead candidate in a unique class of compounds known as
superoxide dismutase (SOD) mimetics. These stable, low molecular weight
compounds mimic the effect of superoxide dismutase, a naturally occurring
enzyme designed to destroy superoxide free radicals present in various
AT1022 | DrugBank Online AT1022 is a hydromorphone skin patch designed to provide rapid and sustained delivery of a potent opiate for the management of severe pain.
AGRO100 | DrugBank Online AGRO100 is an oligonucleotide that functions as an aptamer and binds to nucleolin, a protein found intranuclear in all cells, but uniquely expressed on the surface of tumor cells. Such binding leads to internalization of the complex, and a strong anti-proliferative response in the tumor cell.
Imexon | DrugBank Online Imexon is currently being studied for the treatment of pancreatic, lung, breast, prostate, melanoma, and multiple myeloma cancers. It belongs to the family of drugs called cyanoaziridine derivatives. Also called Amplimexon. Imexon is a cyanoaziridine derivative.
Imexon is a thiol-binding small molecule which induces mitochondrial oxidation, a loss of membrane potential and cytochrome C, leading to apoptosis. Investigated for use/treatment in melanoma, multiple myeloma, ovarian cancer, pancreatic cancer, and solid tumors. Imexon enters the cell and binds to glutathione and other sulfhydryl compounds, effectively preventing them from scavenging the toxic free radicals. So, particularly in the rapidly dividing cancer cell, free radical build-up in the presence of imexon leads to changes in mitochondrial membrane potential and ultimately to the mitochondria swelling and bursting. Mitochondrial proteins, in particular cytochrome c, are released into the cytoplasm and this activates caspase-mediated apoptosis resulting in cancer cell death. This sequence of events has been well characterized and published in several papers in leading cancer journals. Imexon is probably the only cancer drug under development at this time which exploits this mechanism of action.
Belinostat | DrugBank Online Belinostat is a novel agent that inhibits the enzyme histone deacetylase (HDAC) with a sulfonamide-hydroxamide structure. It was developed as an orphan drug to target hematological malignancies and solid tumors by TopoTarget. The safety and efficacy of belinostat is currently being evaluated for use in combination with traditional front-line therapies for the treatment of PTCL. Intravenous administration of the agent is available as Beleodaq as monotherapy and the dosing regimen involves a 21-day cycle. It was US-approved in July 2014 as a therapeutic agent for relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma. Belinostat is indicated for the treatment of patients with relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) with manageable safety profile. It is a potential alternative therapy for patients who did not experience adequate response to first-line drugs for PTCL. It can be used in patients with baseline thrombocytopenia 2.  Beleodaq is a histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitor that exhibits pan-HDAC inhibition and potent growth inhibitory and pro-apoptotic activities in a variety of tumor cells, including PTCL cells, at nanomolar concentrations 2. None of the trials show any clinically relevant changes caused by Beleodaq on heart rate, PR duration or QRS duration as measures of autonomic state, atrio-ventricular conduction or depolarization; there were no cases of Torsades de Pointes. Belinostat inhibits the activity of histone deacetylase (HDAC) thus prevents the removal of acetyl groups from the lysine residues of histones and some non-histone proteins. In vitro, belinostat caused the accumulation of acetylated histones and other proteins, increased the expression of tumor-suppressor genes. It ultimately induces cell cycle arrest, inhibition of angiogenesis and/or apoptosis of some transformed cells.  The volume of distribution is 409 ± 76.7 L. 92.9% and 95.8% of belinostat is bound to protein. Primarily metabolized by hepatic UGT1A1. Strong UGT1A1 inhibitors are expected to increase exposure to belinostat. Belinostat also undergoes hepatic metabolism by CYP2A6, CYP2C9, and CYP3A4 enzymes to form belinostat amide and belinostat acid. The enzymes responsible for the formation of methyl belinostat and 3-(anilinosulfonyl)-benzenecarboxylic acid, (3-ASBA) are not known Hover over products below to view reaction partners Approximately 40% of the belinostat dose is excreted renally, primarily as metabolites and less than 2% of total dose recovered as unchanged parent drug.  Displays a three-compartment pharmacokinetic property with elimination half life of 1.1 hours 1240 mL/min Belinostat is genotoxic according to Ames test and may impair male fertility. Weekly complete blood count should be monitored during treatment to adjust the dosage as intravenous infusion of belinostat is frequently associated with hematologic toxicity such as leukopenia and thrombocytopenia. Incidences of infections such as sepsis, hepatotoxicity, tumor lysis syndrome, gastrointestinal toxicity, and embryo-fetal toxicity may occur.
LC16M8 | DrugBank Online LC16m8 is a next-generation, attenuated smallpox vaccine that is designed to have a better safety profile, yet be equally effective, compared to conventional smallpox vaccines. It is the only attenuated vaccine to be licensed for use in humans to prevent smallpox infection.  Investigated for use/treatment in viral infection. LC16m8 is produced in cell culture from vaccinia
DG041 | DrugBank Online DG041 is a novel, first-in-class, orally-administered small molecule developmented for the prevention of arterial thrombosis and its complications.
DG041, an anti-platelet compound, has shown to be a selective and potent antagonist of the EP3 receptor for prostaglandins E2. EP3 is a target that associates with increased risk of various vascular diseases. It block the formation of blood clots mediated through inflammation in atherosclerotic plaques but without increasing bleeding risk. Investigated for use/treatment in peripheral vascular disease. DG041 is an antagonist of the EP3 receptor for prostaglandins E2 - a receptor involved in peripheral artery disease (PAD). DG041 produces concentration-dependent inhibition of one of the platelet activation pathways and reduces platelet aggregation without increasing bleeding time.
Lancovutide | DrugBank Online Lancovutide, a peptide antibiotic, is in clinical development for the treatment of cystic fibrosis. Duramycin is a 19-amino-acid tetracyclic peptide produced by Streptoverticillium cinnamoneus and is closely related to cinnamycin (Ro09-0198). It belongs to the lantibiotics. Lantibiotics are bacteriocins that are characterized by the presence of a high proportion of unusual amino acids. Investigated for use/treatment in cystic fibrosis and eye disorders/infections. Duramycin becomes deposited in cellular membranes where it binds to phosphatidylethanolamine. It may thereby change biophysical membrane properties and perturb ion channel function.
Arbaclofen Placarbil | DrugBank Online Arbaclofen Placerbil is a prodrug of Arbaclofen, which is a selective gamma-amino-butyric acid type B receptor agonist and the R-enantiomer of baclofen. It was discovered, and has been patented by XenoPort as a new chemical entity with an improved pharmacokinetic profile compared to baclofen, which allows for sustained release properties.  Arbaclofen Placerbil was believed to have therapeutic potential in treating gastroesophogeal reflux disease (GERD) and plasticity; however due to discouraging clinical trial results, the drug was abandoned by XenoPort in 2011 for the treatment of GERD. On May 20th, 2013, XenoPort announced plans to terminate the development of Arbaclofen Placerbil for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. Investigated for the treatment of spasticity in multiple sclerosis, acute back spasms, and GERD.  R-baclofen is postulated to aid in spasticity by acting as an agonist of the inhibitory gamma aminobutyric acid neurotransmission pathway.  Unlike baclofen, absorption of R-baclofen(arbaclofen) is not limited to the upper small intestine. The ability of arbaclofen to be absorbed throughout the gastrointestinal tract allowed for the development of the sustained release formulation, arbaclofen placarbil (AP).  In one study of AP absorption in 10 healthy volunteers, one 20mg oral dose of AP, in the presence of food, resulted in a Tmax of 5.05h.  The oral bioavailability of R-baclofen in rats when AP was dosed at 10mg/kg was 44 ± 12%, and when dosed at 1mg/kg, oral bioavailability was 68 ± 6%.  In monkeys and dogs, the oral bioavailability of R-baclofen when AP was orally dosed was high: 94 ± 16%, and 92 ± 7%, respectively. In comparison, when oral R-balofen was dosed oral bioavailability was 39 ± 21% in monkeys and 49 ± 20% in dogs. Colonic absorption studies measuring R-baclofen bioavailability post intracolonic dosing in rats and monkeys, have revealed low bioavailability with the administration of R-baclofen (7 ± 3% and 3 ± 2%, respectively), and significantly higher R-baclofen bioavailability with intracolonic dosing of AP suspension ( 37 ± 9% and 37 ± 15%, in rats and monkeys respectively).
Intracolonic dosing of AP suspension also resulted in high biolavailability of R-baclofen in dogs (77 ± 23%).  Absorption throughout the intestine is both passive and active and occurs via the monocarboxylate type 1 transporter. Radioactive labeling has shown AP to be widely distributed throughout the body. Tissue distribution occurs mostly to the kidneys and liver. In experimental studies using human liver S9 Arbaclofen placarbil was not shown to be a substrate for CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, and CYP3A4.  Arbaclofen placarbil, the acyloxyalkyl carbamate prodrug of R-arbaclofen, is believed to undergo hydrolysis by the esterase enzyme human carboxylesterase-2 into the parent amine, R-baclfen. Carbon dioxide, isobutyric acid, isobutyraldehyde, are also expected to be produced in equimolar quantities.  The productions of isobutyric acid has been confirmed in vitro untilizing mass spectrometry and gas chromatography. 84-88% renal elimination as R-baclofen. Less than 1% fecal elimination. (2)  IV bolus administration of AP to rats showed that AP was converted to R-baclofen with a half life of 6 minutes.  Blood clearance of an IV bolus of AR in rats resulted in a total blood clearance of 15.81 ± 10.2 L/h/kg in rats.
Ularitide | DrugBank Online Ularitide is a synthetic form of urodilatin, a naturally occurring human natriuretic peptide that is involved in regulating blood pressure and the excretion of water and sodium from the kidneys. Urodilatin is produced in the kidney and excreted into the urine, and thus exists in low levels naturally in the systemic blood circulation. When injected into the blood, ularitide appears to cause diuresis (urine output) and natriuresis (sodium excretion), as well as vasodilation.
Eprotirome | DrugBank Online Eprotirome which is a compound with promising properties for treatment of obesity and dyslipidemia. Eprotirome increases the body’s energy consumption and reduces body weight and markedly reduces blood lipids and blood glucose. Investigated for use/treatment in hyperlipidemia, metabolic disease, and obesity. KB2115 is liver selectuve TR agonist that can induce pharmacological effects in the liver. It increases energy consumption, reduces body weight and also markedly reduces blood lipids and blood glucose levels at doses not affecting heart rate, bone density or TSH levels. KB2115 works by selectively stimulating the thyroid hormone
Obinepitide | DrugBank Online Obinepitide is a synthetic analogue of two natural human hormones, PYY and Pancreatic Polypeptide, which normally are released during a meal. These hormones are known to play a role in the regulation of food intake and appetite in man as satiety signal from the GI-tract to the CNS. In obinepitide, the properties of both of these hormones have been implanted into a single molecule. Investigated for use/treatment in obesity. TM30338 is a first-in-class compound, which in a single
drug targets both the Y2 and the Y4 receptor with similar and very high potency. The Y2 and the Y4 receptors have both previously been validated in man as independent appetite suppressive drug targets through the use of the natural hormones. In pre-clinical studies in diet-induced obese animals the dual active TM30338 has demonstrated clear superiority in respect of long term reduction in body weight
CX717 | DrugBank Online CX717 is an ampakine compound created by Dr. Gary Lynch at UCI in 1993 and further developed by Cortex Pharmaceuticals, an Irvine company created to explore possible applications. It is one of a class of synthetic compounds that amplify the signal of glutamate, a neurotransmitter important for learning and memory. April 18 2007 Cortex Pharmaceuticals submitted two large data packages to the FDA regarding CX717. One data set went to the FDA's Division of Neurology Drug Products for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease, while the other went to the Division of Psychiatry Products where the company intends to file a second CX717 IND for the treatment of ADHD. On 18 April 2007 Cortex Pharmaeuticals submitted data to the FDA for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease as well as ADHD. The data shows that histopathological changes seen in animal studies were an artifact of postmortem fixation methods and not a change that occurred in the living animals as a result of the drug. CX717 is an ampakine compound. It is a positive allosteric modulator of AMPA receptors. It's action is theorized to be due to facilitation of transmission at cortical synapses that use glutamate as neurotransmitter. This in turn may promote plasticity at the synapse, which could translate into better cognitive performance.
AN0128 | DrugBank Online AN0128 is a novel compound that contains a boron atom within a borinic acid complex. AN0128 has broad spectrum activity against a wide variety of Gram positive
bacteria, including many that are known skin colonizers. Of particular importance is P. acnes and its causal role in acne vulgaris. The rise in antibiotic
ILY101 | DrugBank Online ILY101 is a metal-free, non-absorbed polymeric drug designed for the selective binding and removal of phosphate anions from the gastrointestinal tract. ILY101 is being developed for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia in CKD patients on dialysis and works by reducing the systemic absorption of dietary phosphate. ILY101 is designed to allow for lower daily doses and improved patient acceptance and tolerability in comparison to other products in this class of drugs. Investigated for use/treatment in kidney disease. ILY101 binds dietary phosphate in the gastrointestinal tract, facilitating excretion of phosphorus into feces. It is therefore anticipated to ameliorate hyperphosphatemia
GFT14 | DrugBank Online GFT14 is a new class of medicaction for treatment of cardiometabolic disease. GFT14 aims to target mixed dyslipidemia of type IIb (high levels of triglycerides and LDL-C) as one of the major indications of cardiometabolic disease.
Mitoquinone | DrugBank Online Mitoquinone is based on a novel technology, targeted lipophilic cations, that transport and concentrate antioxidants into the mitochondria -- organelles inside cells that provide energy for life processes -- where they accumulate up to a thousand fold. In 2004, a genomic study of hereditary early-onset Parkinson's disease demonstrated a direct molecular link between mitochondrial dysfunction and the pathogenesis of Parkinson's disease. Mitochondrial dysfunction also has been shown to represent an early critical event in the pathogenesis of the sporadic form of Parkinson's disease. Clinical studies by the Parkinson's Study Group show that very high doses of an antioxidant called Coenzyme Q (which Mitoquinone effectively targets into mitochondria) appear to slow the progression of Parkinson's disease symptoms. Investigated for use/treatment in hepatitis (viral, C) and parkinson's disease. Mitoquinone may help to prevent the nerve cell damage that leads to Parkinson's disease. It aims to slow or halt Parkinson's disease at its cause by tackling cell damage caused when mitochondria cease to function normally. It is anticipated that MitoQ will slow or arrest the progression of Parkinson's disease symptoms.
Hepatits C virus can directly alter mitochondrial function, leading to increased reactive oxygen species (free-radical) production that can lead to scarring of the liver and cirrhosis. Mitoquinone could be used to halt or decrease liver inflammation and fibrosis progression, even in the absence of sustained virologic response.
INCB13739 | DrugBank Online INCB13739 is developed as a new treatment for type 2 diabetes.
ADX10059 | DrugBank Online ADX10059 is a metabotropic glutamate receptor 5 (mGluR5) negative allosteric modulator (NAM). The orally available small molecule drug candidate, which is highly specific for mGluR5, was discovered at Addex in 2003. It is developed for the treatment of GERD, migraine and anxiety. Investigated for use/treatment in anxiety disorders, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD), and migraine and cluster headaches. ADX10059 is a selective mGluR5 negative allosteric modulator, it may have the possibility to reduce inappropriate esophageal sphincter relaxations and prevent reflux in man.
AV608 | DrugBank Online AV608 is a NK-1 antagonist. It is developed for the treatment of Social anxiety disorder (SAD), irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) and overactive bladder (OAB). Investigated for use/treatment in anxiety disorders, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), and urinary incontinence. An extensive body of scientific literature supports the potential therapeutic application of NK-1 antagonists to the treatment of anxiety disorders. At a biological level, there is a close anatomical association between Substance P, NK-1 receptors and monoamines. More specifically, ~50% of ascending serotonin neurons in the brain also co-express substance P, and norepinephrine cell bodies in the locus coeruleus express NK-1 receptors. In addition, it has been demonstrated that NK-1 receptor blockade can alter the firing pattern of both serotonin and norepinephrine neurons and increase hippocampal neurogenesis. At a functional level, NK-1 antagonists (including AV608) have broadly demonstrated activity in nearly all of the traditionally used preclinical assays to identify anxiolytic agents, including those assays that are predictive for both benzodiazepines and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). Clinically, anxiety remains a high priority target for Industry, as evidenced by recent development activity in this area.
It is known that the human intestinal mucosa expresses NK-1 receptors. These receptors are also found in the smooth muscle, arterioles, venules and cells associated with lymph nodules and co-localized with substance P, which is found throughout the gastrointestinal tract. Nerve fibers, including sensory fibers, come into close contact with mast cells, which also express NK-1 receptors. Furthermore, approximately 80% of visceral sensory afferents in the gut express substance P, and it is known that NK-1 receptors in the spinal cord mediate visceral hyperalgesia. Tachykinins are potent secretagogues at the small and large intestinal mucosa in several animal models as well as in the human colon, where there is a direct NK-1 receptor mediated response. Perhaps most important with respect to IBS is the observation that stimulation of sensory fibers or mast cells in the human intestinal tract causes the release of substance P and a consequent increase in epithelial ion transport through the activation of NK-1 receptors. The response to colorectal distension has often been used as a proxy for IBS. In this model, colorectal distension increases abdominal flinching, which is an indicator of pain. This procedure also activates a rectocolonic inhibitory reflex characterized by a decrease in colonic pressure and an increase in fluid transport. Several authors have now observed that NK-1 receptors mediate this rectocolonic inhibitory reflex. Decreased colonic pressure is related to increased colonic transit and these findings are therefore consistent with reports that stress increases intestinal transit, an effect blocked by NK-1 receptor antagonists.
AX200 | DrugBank Online AX200, which has been developed for the treatment of stroke, is the most advanced drug candidate and is halfway through the process of gaining clinical approval. The expression of the endogenous AX200 protein in the brain is increased after brain damage. Thus, if this drug administered in the acute phase of stroke, the brain’s own protective action is supported. And this is where the double neurotherapeutic approach is most beneficial: AX200 stops neuronal cell death in the acute phase of stroke, while stimulating simultaneously the regeneration of nervous tissue through the induction of neuro- and arteriogenesis and supporting the reorganisation of the nervous system. Investigated for use/treatment in cardiovascular disorders and strokes. The AX200 protein is produced at highly elevated levels in
Enzalutamide | DrugBank Online Enzalutamide is an androgen receptor inhibitor for the treatment of castration-resistant prostate cancer. FDA approved on August 31, 2012. Enzalutamide is indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who have previously received docetaxel. Resitance to enzalutamide therapy has been observed. This may occurred due to an upregulation of NF-κB2/p52.  Enzalutamide is a competitive androgen receptor inhibitor that effects multiple stages of the signalling pathway. It is able to inhibit androgen binding to its receptor, androgen receptor nuclear translocation, and subsequent interaction with DNA. As a result, proliferation of prostate cancer cells decreases which ultimately leads to apoptosis and decreased tumour volume.  The pharmacokinetic profile of enzalutamide and N-desmethyl enzalutamide (its major active metabolite) is described by a linear two-compartment model with first-order absorption. Enzalutamide also accumulates. Food does not affect its absorption.
Tmax, prostate cancer patients = 1 hour (range of 0.5-3 hours);
Cmax, steady state, enzalutamide = 16.6 μg/mL;
Cmax, steady state, N-desmethyl enzalutamide = 12.7 μg/mL;
Labetuzumab | DrugBank Online Labetuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody to carcinoembryonic antigen that inhibits tumor growth. It is used in radioimmunotherapy. Labetuzumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody used to treat cancer. Retrieved from "http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Labetuzumab" labetuzumab could significantly increase the
Ancrod | DrugBank Online Ancrod, marketed as Viprinex, is a defibrinogenating agent derived from Malayan pit viper venom. The defribrinogenation of blood results in an anticoagulant effect. Currently, Viprinex®/ancrod is not approved or marketed in any country, but is being investigated as a stroke treatment in worldwide clinical trials. In January 2005, the U.S. FDA granted a 'fast-track status' for investigation of ancrod use in patients suffering from acute ischemic stroke, a life threatening condition caused by the blockage of blood vessels supplying blood and oxygen to portions of the brain, for which phase III trials are currently being conducted. Ancrod is indicated for the treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT), central retinal branch vein thrombosis, pripaism, pulmonary hypertension of embolic origin, embolism after insertion of prosthetic cardiac valves, rethrombosis after thrombolytic therapy, rethrombosis after vascular surgery, and prevention of DVT after repair of a fractured neck of a femur. The decreased viscosity is directly attributable to lowered fibrinogen levels and leads to important improvements in blood flow and perfusion of the microcirculation. Ancrod decreases the blood viscosity in affected arteries, leads to less intense pain, improves physical limb mobility, facilitates physical and ergo therapy, and decreases the likelihood of local thrombotic events. Ancrod's anticoagulant effects are through the rapid removal of fibrinogen from the blood within hours following ancrod administration. Ancrod specifically cleaves only the alpha chain of fibrinogen, producing the characteristic fibrinopeptides A, AP and AY, not the B-fibrinopeptide. The resulting fibrin polymers are imperfectly formed and much smaller in size (1 to 2 µm long) than the fibrin polymers produced by the action of thrombin. These ancrod-induced microthrombi are friable, unstable, urea-soluble and have significantly degraded a-chains. They do not cross-link to form thrombi. They are markedly susceptible to digestion by plasmin and are rapidly removed from circulation by either reticuloendothelial phagocytosis or normal fibrinolysis, or both. Blood viscosity is reduced by 30-40%.
Ancrod does not activate plagminogen and does not degrade preformed, fully cross-linked thrombin fibrin. Consequently, unlike fibrinolytic agents, ancrod can be used postoperatively.
IR208 | DrugBank Online IR208 is a synthetic T-Cell receptor peptide
vaccine developed by Immune Response Corporation.
It contains three peptides (BV5S2, BV6S5
and BV13S1) expressed by T-Cells in over 90% of MS
patients. IR208 is currently undergoing Phase II
AP5280 | DrugBank Online AP5280 is a novel N-(2-hydroxypropyl)methacrylamide (HPMA) copolymer-bound platinum (Pt) therapeutic designed to increase the therapeutic index relative to conventional, small-molecule platinum agents. Investigated for use/treatment in solid tumors. AP5280 was designed to take advantage of two independent mechanisms for attaining selectivity. The first of these is the enhanced permeability and retention effect by which high molecular weight polymers passively accumulate to high levels in tumors, and the second is the increased level of expression of proteases capable of cleaving the peptide linker between the polymer and the cytotoxic moiety that is characteristic of many tumors.
AP5280 is a chemotherapeutic agent that we believe has the potential to have significantly superior effectiveness in treating numerous cancers compared to platinum compounds currently in use. AP5280 seeks to achieve this goal by attaching a large polymer to a small platinum molecule. This method exploits the usually leaky or hyperpermeable nature of the cells that line the walls of blood vessels that
feed tumors by allowing the large AP5280 molecule to enter the tumor in preference to other tissue, which do not have leaky or hyperpermeable blood vessels. In addition, the capillary/lymphatic drainage system of tumors is not well developed and limited, so the drug gets trapped in the
tumor. This dual effect is called enhanced permeability and retention, or EPR. In addition, the polymer is designed to shield the platinum from interactions with normal cells while the drug circulates within the body, thereby reducing toxicity. The proposed mechanism of how AP5280 is taken up by tumor cells bypasses known membrane-associated mechanisms
IGN301 | DrugBank Online IGN301 is a cancer vaccine based on an anti-idiotypic antibody which provokes an immune response to Lewis Y. Lewis Y is a carbohydrate molecule expressed on the surface of tumor cells of epithelial origin (e.g. lung, intestinal, breast, prostate or ovarian cancers). Investigated for use/treatment in cancer/tumors (unspecified). IGN301 is based on an anti-idiotype antibody designed to trigger an immune response to Lewis Y, a carbohydrate
molecule frequently overexpressed in tumor cells of epithelial origin such as lung, colon, breast, prostate or
ARC183 | DrugBank Online ARC183 is a DNA aptamer, which is a single-stranded DNA molecule consisting of 15 deoxynucleotides that forms well-defined three-dimensional configuration, allowing it to bind to thrombin with high affinity and specificity. The key
SC12267 | DrugBank Online SC12267 is a novel, small molecule agent from the class of DMARDs (disease modifying anti-rheumatic drug) for the therapy of autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis or multiple sclerosis. Through highly selective inhibition of pyrimidine biosynthesis, it controls the growth of rapidly proliferating cells, especially of lymphocytes, which are important for the immune response. Investigated for use/treatment in multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis. SC12267, a novel, selective and orally available, small molecule inhibitor of dihydroorotate dehydrogenase
(DHODH), interferes with cell proliferation through blocking the synthesis pathway of pyrimidines. Its mode-of-
action is of therapeutic relevance for the treatment of autoimmune disorders such as rheumatoid arthritis and
VP025 | DrugBank Online VP025, a novel drug formulation based on phospholipid microparticles incorporating phosphatidylglycerol, can inhibit neuroinflammation. VP025 may inhibit immune system activation and protect motoneurons from injury. It also shows the ability to reduce inflammation across the blood-brain barrier and improve correlates of memory and learning function. It is being developed to target the chronic inflammation within the central nervous system that is associated with a number of neurological diseases, including Alzheimer’s disease, Parkinson’s disease, and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (Lou Gehrig’s disease). It is considered to be a systemic anti-inflammatory and neuroprotective agent. Investigated for use/treatment in alzheimer's disease and inflammatory disorders (unspecified). VP025 may invoke the body's response ti cell surface phospholipid components, the result of which is an up-regulation of regulatory T cells promoting a suppression of inflammation. VP025 cross the blood-brain barrier, demonstrating potent anti-inflammatory activity and preserving the function of neural pathways necessary for memory and learning. VP025 is being developed to exert its anti-inflammatory effects using an cell clearance mechanism. VP025, a preparation of phospholipid microparticles containing
AdPEDF | DrugBank Online AdPEDF is under development for the treatment of wet age-related macular degeneration (AMD). It has been shown to rapidly elevate the intraocular AdPEDF protein levels in the eye, inhibit abnormal blood vessel growth, and cause abnormal blood vessels to regress while protecting the eye’s photoreceptors. Investigated for use/treatment in macular degeneration. AdPEDF is an adenoviral-based vector containing the gene for human pigment epithelium-derived factor (PEDF), a protein found in the eye that normally regulates blood vessel growth in the eye and protects the cells of the retina from damage. AdPEDF is designed to deliver sustained levels of the
human Pigment Epithelium-Derived Factor (PEDF) protein in the eye. PEDF is the eye’s key natural regulator of normal blood vessel growth and neuronal function and has been demonstrated to have dual potent antiangiogenic and
CAD106 | DrugBank Online CAD106 is an immunotherapeutic product in development for the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. It is designed to induce antibodies against the beta-amyloid-protein that inhibit the formation of plaques in the brain of Alzheimer's disease patients.  Investigated for use/treatment in alzheimer's disease. CAD106 can block the formation of beta-amyloid plaques in the brain. Since the formation of such plaques is considered a hallmark of the disease, CAD106 may offer the potential to advance the treatment of Alzheimer's disease. CAD106 is designed to induce antibodies against the beta-amyloid-protein that inhibit the formation of
Pretomanid | DrugBank Online Persistent forms of tuberculosis (TB) have proven to be a major cause of global morbidity and mortality and a cause for significant concern. Research in recent years has been geared toward the development of novel therapies that target persistent forms of this disease, which have shown resistance to standard therapy regimens.6 Pretomanid is an antimycobacterial agent that is administered with Bedaquiline and Linezolid to treat resistant forms of pulmonary TB. It was the first TB drug developed by a nonprofit organization, known as TB Alliance, and was granted FDA approval on August 14, 2019.10,13 Unlike other therapeutic regimens for the treatment of resistant TB, which may take 18 months or longer and may not be effective, the pretomanid-containing regimen allows for a more efficacious and shorter duration of treatment with fewer drugs.13 Pretomanid is indicated for adults in combination with bedaquiline and linezolid for the treatment of pulmonary forms of nonresponsive multidrug-resistant (MDR), extensively drug-resistant (XDR), and treatment-intolerant forms of pulmonary tuberculosis (TB).10 It is important to note that the following conditions are not approved indications for pretomanid therapy, according to the FDA10: Drug-sensitive (DS) tuberculosis, latent tuberculosis caused by M.tuberculosis, extra-pulmonary tuberculosis caused by M.tuberculosis, and
multidrug-resistant TB that is not treatment-intolerant or nonresponsive to conventional TB therapy. Pretomanid kills the actively replicating bacteria causing tuberculosis, known as Mycobacterium tuberculosis, and shortens the duration of treatment in patients who suffer from resistant forms of pulmonary TB by killing dormant bacteria.4,5,7,10 In rodent models of tuberculosis infection, pretomanid administered in a regimen with bedaquiline and linezolid caused a significant reduction in pulmonary bacterial cell counts. A decrease in the frequency of TB relapses at 2 and 3 months after treatment was observed after the administration of this regimen, when compared to the administration of a 2-drug regimen.10 Successful outcomes have been recorded for patients with XDR and MDR following a clinical trial of the pretomanid regimen, demonstrating a 90% cure rate after 6 months.14 A note on cardiac QT prolongation, hepatotoxicity, and myelosuppression This drug has the propensity to caused cardiac QT interval prolongation and significant hepatotoxicity, as well as myelosuppression. Caution must be observed during the administration of this drug.10,12 Pretomanid is a prodrug which is metabolically activated by a nitroreductase enzyme, known as Ddn, producing various active metabolites that are responsible for its other therapeutic actions, particularly the induction of nitric oxide. The nitroreductase enzyme which activates pretomanid is deazaflavin dependent and relies on reduced cofactor F420. Reduction of F420 occurs via the enzyme glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase.10 Reduction of pretomanid's imidazole ring at the C-3 position causes the formation of the metabolites, which include a des-nitro derivative. The formation of this derivative leads to increased levels of nitric oxide, leading to bactericidal activities under anaerobic conditions via its action as a bacterial respiratory poison.3,10 Bactericidal activity against anaerobes is reported to be associated with a shortened duration of antibiotic treatment.4  Pretomanid exerts aerobic bactericidal effects through its inhibitory actions on bacterial cell wall mycolic acid biosynthesis. This allows for the killing of actively replicating Mycobacterium tuberculosis bacteria, resulting in the treatment of active tuberculosis infection.4,10 The molecular mechanism of the above bactericidal effects is poorly understood at this time, but may involve effects exerted on various genes that affect the cell wall, including the fasI and fasII as well as the efpA and iniBAC operons. Other possible targets include the genes of the cyd operon. The clinical effects of the above target relations are unknown at this time.5  This drug is absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract. The steady-state Cmax of pretomanid was estimated to be 1.7 μg/mL after a single 200mg oral dose.10 In a separate pharmacokinetic modeling study, the Cmax of a 200mg dose was 1.1 μg/ml.2 Tmax in a study of healthy subjects in the fed or unfed state was achieved within 4 to 5 hours.10 The AUC in the same study was found to be about 28.1 μg•hr/mL in the fasted state and about 51.6 μg•hr/mL in the fed state, showing higher absorption when taken with high-calorie and high-fat food.10 A pharmacokinetic modeling study estimated the volume of distribution at 130 ± 5L.2 A pharmacokinetic study in healthy volunteers determined a volume of distribution of about 180 ± 51.3L in fasted state and 97.0 ± 17.2L in the fed state.10 The plasma protein binding of pretomanid is about 86.4%.10 Various reductive and oxidative pathways are responsible for pretomanid metabolism, with no single major metabolic pathway identified. According to in vitro studies, CYP3A4 is responsible for a 20% contribution to the metabolism of pretomanid.10 Hover over products below to view reaction partners Healthy adult male volunteers were administered a 1,100 mg oral dose of radiolabeled pretomanid in one pharmacokinetic study. An average of about 53% of the radioactive dose was found to be excreted in the urine. Approximately 38% was measured mainly as metabolites in the feces. A estimated 1% of the radiolabeled dose was measured as unchanged drug in the urine.10 The elimination half-life was determined to be 16.9-17.4 hours in a pharmacokinetic study of healthy subjects.10 An FDA briefing document reports a half-life of 18 hours.12 The clearance of pretomanid in a pharmacokinetic simulation study has been estimated at 4.8 ± 0.2 liters/h.2
Albiglutide | DrugBank Online Albiglutide is a glucagon-like peptide-1 agonist (GLP-1) biologic drug indicated in the treatment of type 2 diabetes. It is marketed under the brands Eperzan and Tanzeum by GSK (GlaxoSmithKline). It is a dipeptidyl peptidase-4-resistant glucagon-like peptide-1 dimer fused to human albumin. Albiglutide was approved on April 15, 2014 by the FDA. Indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Albiglutide is an agonist of the GLP-1 (glucagon-like peptide 1) receptor and augments glucose-dependent insulin secretion. Albiglutide also slows gastric emptying.  Maximum concentrations of albiglutide were reached at 3 to 5 days post-dosing following a single 30mg dose. The mean peak concentration (Cmax) and mean area under the time-concentration curve (AUC) of albiglutide were 1.74 mcg/mL and 465 mcg.h/mL, respectively 11 L.  Biotransformation studies have not been performed. Because albiglutide is an albumin fusion protein, it likely follows a metabolic pathway similar to native human serum albumin, which is catabolized primarily in the vascular endothelium. 4-7 days. 67 mL/h. -RISK OF THYROID C-CELL TUMORS
MLN0415 | DrugBank Online MLN0415 is a novel, small molecule IKK2 inhibitor, discovered by Millennium scientists. In preclinical studies, MLN0415 was shown to decrease NF-kB activation and down-regulate the expression of a number of inflammatory proteins. Because inflammatory proteins play a critical role in inflammation and drive the inflammatory response to disease, controlling these proteins may prevent or slow disease progression.  Investigated for use/treatment in inflammatory disorders (unspecified). MLN0415 is an oral, highly selective, small molecule
inhibitor of IKK2, which targets a major inflammatory pathway. MLN0415 was shown to decrease NF-kB activation and down-regulate the expression of a number of inflammatory proteins. Because inflammatory proteins play a critical role
TRO19622 | DrugBank Online TRO19622 is a cholesterol-like small molecule that has demonstrated a remarkable neuroprotective profile in a battery of both in vitro and in vivo preclinical models. For example, it has demonstrated the ability to prevent neurodegeneration, enhance nerve function and accelerate neuroregeneration following nerve trauma.  Investigated for use/treatment in neurologic disorders. TRO19622 interacts with a physiologically relevant target: the mitochondrial permeability transition pore (mPTP).
Mitochondria are central mediators of cell death and are implicated in most if not all neurodegenerative diseases regardless of the initiating factor: genetic mutations,
excitotoxicity, reactive oxygen species, ischemia, chemical toxicity, etc. Mitochondria play diverse roles in all cells.
In neurons, especially near synaptic sites, mitochondria are essential calcium-buffering organelles in areas where membrane excitability leads to large influx of calcium through calcium channels. Mitochondria also produce the ATP necessary for microtubule-based axoplasmic transport and maintaining the activity of ion and nutrient transporters. If a neuron fails to establish or maintain its functional role, mitochondria are responsible for eliminating it
by releasing apoptotic factors. TRO19622, by interacting with protein components of the mPTP, prevents the release of
EPC2407 | DrugBank Online EPC2407 is a novel small molecule vascular disruption agent and apoptosis inducer for the treatment of patients with advanced solid tumors and lymphomas. It is intended for the treatment of advanced cancer patients with solid tumors that are well vascularized. These tumors
CYC116 | DrugBank Online CYC116 is a novel anticancer compound with a unique target profile involving both cell cycle and angiogenesis inhibition mechanisms. In preclinical studies, CYC116 has demonstrated antitumor activity in both solid tumors and hematological cancers. Cyclacel's small molecule investigational drug, CYC116, is the third orally-available Cyclacel drug to enter development, which demonstrated anticancer activity with a mechanism consistent with inhibition of Aurora kinase. Advanced solid tumors Aurora kinases are enzymes that help dividing cells share their materials between two daughter cells. In many people with cancer Aurora kinase malfunctions and normal control of cell division is lost resulting in abnormal growth.
CX157 | DrugBank Online CX157,3-fluoro-7-(2,2,2,-trifluoroethoxy)phenoxathiin-10,10-dioxide, is a reversible, selective inhibitor of MAO-A designed to have improved oral bioavailability and reduced clearance compared to previous MAO-A inhibitors of this class. Anxiety Disorders I,
Insulin human | DrugBank Online Human Insulin, also known as Regular Insulin, is a short-acting form of insulin used for the treatment of hyperglycemia caused by Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes. Human insulin is produced by recombinant DNA technology and is identical to endogenously produced insulin. Typically prescribed for the management of diabetes mellitus, insulin is a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas that promotes glucose metabolism. Insulin is released from the pancreas following a meal to promote the uptake of glucose from the blood into internal organs and tissues such as the liver, fat cells, and skeletal muscle. Absorption of glucose into cells allows for its transformation into glycogen or fat for storage. Insulin also inhibits hepatic glucose production, enhances protein synthesis, and inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis among many other functions. Insulin is an important treatment in the management of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) which is caused by an autoimmune reaction that destroys the beta cells of the pancreas, resulting in the body not being able to produce or synthesize the insulin needed to manage circulating blood sugar levels. As a result, people with T1D rely primarily on exogenous forms of insulin to lower glucose levels in the blood. Insulin is also used in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), another form of diabetes mellitus that is a slowly progressing metabolic disorder caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors that promote chronically elevated blood sugar levels. Without treatment or improvement in non-pharmacological measures such as diet and exercise to lower blood glucose, high blood sugar eventually causes cellular resistance to endogenous insulin, and in the long term, damage to pancreatic islet cells. Insulin is typically prescribed later in the course of T2D, after trying several oral medications such as Metformin, Gliclazide, or Sitagliptin have been tried, when sufficient damage has been caused to pancreatic cells that the body is no longer able to produce insulin on its own.  Marketed as the brand name product Humulin R or Novolin R, human insulin begins to exert its effects within 30 minutes of subcutaneous administration, while peak levels occur 3-4 hours after administration. Due to its quick onset of action, human insulin is considered "bolus insulin" as it provides high levels of insulin in a short period of time to mimic the release of endogenous insulin from the pancreas after meals. Bolus insulin is often combined with once daily, long-acting "basal insulin" such as Insulin detemir, Insulin degludec, and Insulin glargine to provide low concentrations of background insulin that can keep blood sugar stable between meals or overnight. Use of basal and bolus insulin together is intended to mimic the pancreas' production of endogenous insulin, with a goal of avoiding any periods of hypoglycemia. Human insulin is also available in an inhalable form, intended to be used as a bolus meal-time insulin. Exubera was the first inhaled insulin available on the market and was developed by Inhale Therapeutics (later named Nektar Therapeutics). Unfortunately, limited uptake by physicians and patients, poor sales, bulky packaging, and concerns over the possible impact on lung cancer development resulted in Exubera products being withdrawn from the US markets 6. Exubera was followed by Afrezza, a monomeric inhaled insulin developed by Mannkind Corporation, which received FDA approval in 2016. While still available in the US, Afrezza has had similar concerns associated with its use, and had an FDA "black box" warning added to it to warn about use in patients with chronic lung disease. Afrezza does not currently have Health Canada or European Medicines Agency approval for marketing in Canada or the EU.  Human Insulin is a 51 residue peptide hormone produced by recombinant DNA technology by inserting the human insulin gene into Escherichia coli bacteria or Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The structure is identical to native human insulin, with two amino acid chains covalently linked by disulfide bonds.  Human insulin is also available in an intermediate-acting form as NPH (Neutral Protamine Hagedorn) as the marketed products Novolin N and Humulin N. NPH insulin is provided as a crystalline suspension of insulin with protamine and zinc, resulting in an onset of action in 1 to 3 hours, duration of action up to 24 hours, and peak action from 6 to 8 hours. Due to the added crystals, NPH insulin is typically cloudy when compared to other forms of insulin and has a neutral pH. Without an adequate supply of insulin to promote absorption of glucose from the bloodstream, blood sugar levels can climb to dangerously high levels and can result in symptoms such as fatigue, headache, blurred vision, and increased thirst. If left untreated, the body starts to break down fat, instead of glucose, for energy which results in a build-up of ketone acids in the blood and a syndrome called ketoacidosis, which is a life-threatening medical emergency. In the long term, elevated blood sugar levels increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, and diabetic neuropathy. Human insulin is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus. Insulin is a natural hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas. In non-diabetic individuals, a basal level of insulin is supplemented with insulin spikes following meals. Postprandial insulin spikes are responsible for the metabolic changes that occur as the body transitions from a postabsorptive to absorptive state. Insulin promotes cellular uptake of glucose, particularly in muscle and adipose tissues, promotes energy storage via glycogenesis, opposes catabolism of energy stores, increases DNA replication and protein synthesis by stimulating amino acid uptake by liver, muscle and adipose tissue, and modifies the activity of numerous enzymes involved in glycogen synthesis and glycolysis. Insulin also promotes growth and is required for the actions of growth hormone (e.g. protein synthesis, cell division, DNA synthesis).  The primary activity of insulin is the regulation of glucose metabolism. Insulin promotes glucose and amino acid uptake into muscle and adipose tissues, and other tissues except brain and liver. It also has an anabolic role in stimulating glycogen, fatty acid, and protein synthesis. Insulin inhibits gluconeogenesis in the liver.
Crisaborole | DrugBank Online Crisaborole is a novel oxaborole approved by FDA on December 14, 2016 as Eucrisa, a topical treatment of for mild to moderate atopic dermatitis.
Vemurafenib | DrugBank Online Vemurafenib is a competitive kinase inhibitor with activity against BRAF kinase with mutations like V600E.2 It exerts its function by binding to the ATP-binding domain of the mutant BRAF.3 Vemurafenib was co-developed by Roche and Plexxikon and it obtained its FDA approval on August 17, 2011, under the company Hoffmann La Roche. After approval, Roche in collaboration with Genentech launched a broad development program. 8 Vemurafenib is approved since 2011 for the treatment of metastatic melanoma with a mutation on BRAF in the valine located in the exon 15 at codon 600, this mutation is denominated as V600E.3 The V600E mutation, a substitution of glutamic acid for valine, accounts for 54% of the cases of cutaneous melanoma.4
Silver sulfadiazine | DrugBank Online Silver sulfadiazine is a sulfa derivative topical antibacterial used primarily on second- and third-degree burns. Indicated as an adjunct for the prevention and treatment of wound sepsis in patients with second- and third-degree burns. Silver sulfadiazine has broad antimicrobial activity. It is bactericidal for many gram- negative and gram-positive bacteria as well as being effective against yeast. Silver sulfadiazine is not a carbonic anhydrase inhibitor and may be useful in situations where such agents are contraindicated. Studies utilizing radioactive micronized silver sulfadiazine, electron microscopy, and biochemical techniques have revealed that the mechanism of action of silver sulfadiazine on bacteria differs from silver nitrate and sodium sulfadiazine. Silver sulfadiazine acts only on the cell membrane and cell wall to produce its bactericidal effect. A specific mechanism of action has not been determined, but silver sulfadiazine's effectiveness may possibly be from a synergistic interaction, or the action of each component. Silver is a biocide, which binds to a broad range of targets. Silver ions bind to nucleophilic amino acids, as well as sulfhydryl, amino, imidazole, phosphate, and carboxyl groups in proteins, causing protein denaturation and enzyme inhibition.
Silver binds to surface membranes and proteins, causing proton leaks in the membrane, leading to cell death.
Dilmapimod | DrugBank Online Dilmapimod has been used in trials studying the treatment and diagnostic of Nerve Trauma, Inflammation, Pain, Neuropathic, Arthritis, Rheumatoid, and Coronary Heart Disease, among others. Dilmapimod (SB-681323) is a p38 MAP-kinase inhibitor that has potential uses in inflammatory conditions such as RA (Rheumatoid Arthritis). Previous p38 MAP-kinase inhibitors have been hindered in development by liver toxicity. Methotrexate (common treatment for RA patients) also has potential liver toxicity.} Dilmapimod has been used in trials studying the treatment and diagnostic of Nerve Trauma, Inflammation, Pain, Neuropathic, Arthritis, Rheumatoid, and Coronary Heart Disease, among others. Dilmapimod reduces the levels of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines and reduce cellular infiltration to sites of inflammation, thereby reducing local damage.
Activated charcoal | DrugBank Online Activated charcoal, or activated carbon, is an amorphous form of carbon prepared from incomplete combustion of carbonaceous organic matter. It is activated by an oxidizing gas flow at high temperature passed over its surface to make a fine network of pores, producing a material with large surface area and high affinity for various substances. It is used as a gastric decontaminant and emergency medication to treat poisonings following excessive oral ingestion of certain medications or poisons by absorbing most drugs and toxins. However its effects is rendered poor on some compounds including strong acids or bases, methanol and substances with limited absorptive capacity (including iron, lithium, arsenic). It works by binding to the poison in the gastric contents in a reversible fashion thus may be adminstered together with a cathartic to reduce the small intestine transit time. The clinical applications of activated charcoal occured in the early 1800's. While this management for acute poisoning is considered fairly invasive, it is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines that includes the most important medications needed in a basic health system. Used as a antidote to treat poisonings following excessive oral ingestion of certain medications or poisons.  Activated charcoal is used as a gastric decontamination agent in emergency clinical settings in case of poison or medication overdose. Studies show that early administration of one dose of activated charcoal can adsorb poison in the stomach and reduce absorption while it also works long after ingestion, by interruption of enterohepatic and enterovascular cycling of poison.  Active charcoal acts by binding to the pharmaceutical drugs or poisons such as organophosphates and decreasing the systemic absorption of toxic agents. Molecules with large volume of distribution, thus likely having higher lipid solubility, tends to bind have better absorptive binding to activated charcoal. Following the administration of activated charcoal, cathartics are indicated to evacuate the charcoal-poison bonded complex from the gastrointestinal tract.
Rotigotine | DrugBank Online Rotigotine (Neupro) is a non-ergoline dopamine agonist indicated for the treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) and restless legs syndrome (RLS) in Europe and the United States. It is formulated as a once-daily transdermal patch which provides a slow and constant supply of the drug over the course of 24 hours. Like other dopamine agonists, rotigotine has been shown to possess antidepressant effects and may be useful in the treatment of depression as well. Rotigotine was developed by Aderis Pharmaceuticals. In 1998 Aderis licensed worldwide development and commercialization rights to Schwarz Pharma of Germany. It was approved by the European Medicines Agency in 2006 and by the FDA in 2007. However, all Neupro patches in the United States and some of Europe were recalled in 2008 due to delivery mechanism issues. Rotigotine has been authorized as a treatment for RLS since August 2008. For use/treatment in neurologic disorders and parkinson's disease as well as moderate-to-severe primary Restless Legs Syndrome. Rotigotine is an agonist at all 5 dopamine receptor subtypes (D1-D5) but binds to the D3 receptor with the highest affinity. It is also an antagonist at α-2-adrenergic receptors and an agonist at the 5HT1A receptors. Rotigotine also inhibits dopamine uptake and prolactin secretion. There is no indication of a QT/QTc prolonging effect of Neupro in doses up to 24 mg/24 hours. The effects of Neupro at doses up to 24 mg/24 hours (supratherapeutic doses) on the QT/QTc interval was evaluated in a double-blind, randomized, placebo- and positive-controlled (moxifloxacin 400 mg IV, single dose) parallel-group trial with an overall treatment period of 52 days in male and female patients with advanced-stage Parkinson's disease. Assay sensitivity was confirmed by significant QTc prolongation by moxifloxacin.  Rotigotine, a member of the dopamine agonist class of drugs, is delivered continuously through the skin (transdermal) using a silicone-based patch that is replaced every 24 hours. A dopamine agonist works by activating dopamine receptors in the body, mimicking the effect of the neurotransmitter dopamine. The precise mechanism of action of rotigotine as a treatment for Restless Legs Syndrome is unknown but is thought to be related to its ability to stimulate dopamine  Bioavailability varies depending on the application site. Differences in bioavailability were very small between the abdomen and hip (<1%). In contrast, the shoulder and thigh had a very large different in measured bioavailability (46%), with the shoulder showing the higher value.
Insulin human | DrugBank Online Human Insulin, also known as Regular Insulin, is a short-acting form of insulin used for the treatment of hyperglycemia caused by Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes. Human insulin is produced by recombinant DNA technology and is identical to endogenously produced insulin. Typically prescribed for the management of diabetes mellitus, insulin is a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas that promotes glucose metabolism. Insulin is released from the pancreas following a meal to promote the uptake of glucose from the blood into internal organs and tissues such as the liver, fat cells, and skeletal muscle. Absorption of glucose into cells allows for its transformation into glycogen or fat for storage. Insulin also inhibits hepatic glucose production, enhances protein synthesis, and inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis among many other functions. Insulin is an important treatment in the management of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) which is caused by an autoimmune reaction that destroys the beta cells of the pancreas, resulting in the body not being able to produce or synthesize the insulin needed to manage circulating blood sugar levels. As a result, people with T1D rely primarily on exogenous forms of insulin to lower glucose levels in the blood. Insulin is also used in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), another form of diabetes mellitus that is a slowly progressing metabolic disorder caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors that promote chronically elevated blood sugar levels. Without treatment or improvement in non-pharmacological measures such as diet and exercise to lower blood glucose, high blood sugar eventually causes cellular resistance to endogenous insulin, and in the long term, damage to pancreatic islet cells. Insulin is typically prescribed later in the course of T2D, after trying several oral medications such as Metformin, Gliclazide, or Sitagliptin have been tried, when sufficient damage has been caused to pancreatic cells that the body is no longer able to produce insulin on its own.  Marketed as the brand name product Humulin R or Novolin R, human insulin begins to exert its effects within 30 minutes of subcutaneous administration, while peak levels occur 3-4 hours after administration. Due to its quick onset of action, human insulin is considered "bolus insulin" as it provides high levels of insulin in a short period of time to mimic the release of endogenous insulin from the pancreas after meals. Bolus insulin is often combined with once daily, long-acting "basal insulin" such as Insulin detemir, Insulin degludec, and Insulin glargine to provide low concentrations of background insulin that can keep blood sugar stable between meals or overnight. Use of basal and bolus insulin together is intended to mimic the pancreas' production of endogenous insulin, with a goal of avoiding any periods of hypoglycemia. Human insulin is also available in an inhalable form, intended to be used as a bolus meal-time insulin. Exubera was the first inhaled insulin available on the market and was developed by Inhale Therapeutics (later named Nektar Therapeutics). Unfortunately, limited uptake by physicians and patients, poor sales, bulky packaging, and concerns over the possible impact on lung cancer development resulted in Exubera products being withdrawn from the US markets 6. Exubera was followed by Afrezza, a monomeric inhaled insulin developed by Mannkind Corporation, which received FDA approval in 2016. While still available in the US, Afrezza has had similar concerns associated with its use, and had an FDA "black box" warning added to it to warn about use in patients with chronic lung disease. Afrezza does not currently have Health Canada or European Medicines Agency approval for marketing in Canada or the EU.  Human Insulin is a 51 residue peptide hormone produced by recombinant DNA technology by inserting the human insulin gene into Escherichia coli bacteria or Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The structure is identical to native human insulin, with two amino acid chains covalently linked by disulfide bonds.  Human insulin is also available in an intermediate-acting form as NPH (Neutral Protamine Hagedorn) as the marketed products Novolin N and Humulin N. NPH insulin is provided as a crystalline suspension of insulin with protamine and zinc, resulting in an onset of action in 1 to 3 hours, duration of action up to 24 hours, and peak action from 6 to 8 hours. Due to the added crystals, NPH insulin is typically cloudy when compared to other forms of insulin and has a neutral pH. Without an adequate supply of insulin to promote absorption of glucose from the bloodstream, blood sugar levels can climb to dangerously high levels and can result in symptoms such as fatigue, headache, blurred vision, and increased thirst. If left untreated, the body starts to break down fat, instead of glucose, for energy which results in a build-up of ketone acids in the blood and a syndrome called ketoacidosis, which is a life-threatening medical emergency. In the long term, elevated blood sugar levels increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, and diabetic neuropathy. Human insulin is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus. Insulin is a natural hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas. In non-diabetic individuals, a basal level of insulin is supplemented with insulin spikes following meals. Postprandial insulin spikes are responsible for the metabolic changes that occur as the body transitions from a postabsorptive to absorptive state. Insulin promotes cellular uptake of glucose, particularly in muscle and adipose tissues, promotes energy storage via glycogenesis, opposes catabolism of energy stores, increases DNA replication and protein synthesis by stimulating amino acid uptake by liver, muscle and adipose tissue, and modifies the activity of numerous enzymes involved in glycogen synthesis and glycolysis. Insulin also promotes growth and is required for the actions of growth hormone (e.g. protein synthesis, cell division, DNA synthesis).  The primary activity of insulin is the regulation of glucose metabolism. Insulin promotes glucose and amino acid uptake into muscle and adipose tissues, and other tissues except brain and liver. It also has an anabolic role in stimulating glycogen, fatty acid, and protein synthesis. Insulin inhibits gluconeogenesis in the liver.
Fospropofol | DrugBank Online Fospropofol is a water soluble prodrug and is converted to propofol in the liver. Fospropofol is a short acting hypnotic/sedative/anesthetic agent. Unlike propofol, does not cause injection-site pain as it is unable to activate TRPA1. FDA approved in December 2008.
Fospropofol is a Schedule IV controlled substance in the United States under the Controlled Substances Act. For monitored anaesthesia care sedation in patients undergoing diagnostic procedures like bronchoscopy and colonscopy or minor surgical procedures like arthroscopy and bunionectomy.  Fospropofol is a prodrug of propofol, a sedative hypnotic drug. Unlike propofol, fospropofol is water soluble and can be administered in an aqueous solution. 1.86 mg of fospropofol is the molar equivalent for 1mg of propofol.  After in-vivo conversion of fospropofol into propofol by endothelial alkaline phosphatase, propofol crosses the blood-brain barrier, binds to GABA-A receptors and acts as an agonist. By binding to GABA-A receptor, it will cause an increase in chloride conductance, thus inhibiting the firing of new action potentials in the post-synaptic neuron.  Adequate sedation achieved after 7 minutes with a IV bolus dose of 10mg/kg. It takes 21-45 minutes for patients to recover for fospropopol-induced sedation. Following an intravenous bolus administration of 6 mg/kg in a healthy subject, the pharmacokinetic parameters of fospropofol are as follows:
Cmax = 78.7 μg/mL;
Tmax = 4 minutes;
AUC(0-∞) = 19.0 μg ⋅ h/mL;  Fospropofol = 0.33±0.069 L/kg;
Propofol metabolite = 5.8 L/kg.  Both fospropofol and its active metabolite propofol are highly protein bound (approximately 98%), primarily to albumin. Fospropofol does not affect the binding of propofol to albumin.  Fospropofol is metabolized into propofol, formaldehyde, and phosphate by endothelial alkaline phosphatase. The metabolite, formaldehyde, is quickly oxidized into formic acid by glutathione dependent and independent dehydrogenases and erythrocytes. Excess formic acid is eliminated via oxidation to carbon dioxide through the tetrahydrofolate pathway. Propofol is further metabolized into propofol glucuronide, quinol-4-sulfate, quinol-1-fluronide, and quinol-4-glucuronide. The cytochrome P450 enzyme system is not involved with the metabolism of fospropofol.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Chiefly eliminated by hepatic conjugation to inactive metabolites which are excreted by the kidney. There is negligible renal elimination of unchanged fospropofol (<0.02%).  When given to a patient, the half-lives are as follows:
Fospropofol = 0.81 hours;
Propofol metabolite = 1.13 hours  Total body clearance (CLp), Fospropofol, healthy subject = 0.28 L/h/kg;
CLp, fospropofol, patients = 0.31 L/h/kg;
Insulin human | DrugBank Online Human Insulin, also known as Regular Insulin, is a short-acting form of insulin used for the treatment of hyperglycemia caused by Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes. Human insulin is produced by recombinant DNA technology and is identical to endogenously produced insulin. Typically prescribed for the management of diabetes mellitus, insulin is a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas that promotes glucose metabolism. Insulin is released from the pancreas following a meal to promote the uptake of glucose from the blood into internal organs and tissues such as the liver, fat cells, and skeletal muscle. Absorption of glucose into cells allows for its transformation into glycogen or fat for storage. Insulin also inhibits hepatic glucose production, enhances protein synthesis, and inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis among many other functions. Insulin is an important treatment in the management of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) which is caused by an autoimmune reaction that destroys the beta cells of the pancreas, resulting in the body not being able to produce or synthesize the insulin needed to manage circulating blood sugar levels. As a result, people with T1D rely primarily on exogenous forms of insulin to lower glucose levels in the blood. Insulin is also used in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), another form of diabetes mellitus that is a slowly progressing metabolic disorder caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors that promote chronically elevated blood sugar levels. Without treatment or improvement in non-pharmacological measures such as diet and exercise to lower blood glucose, high blood sugar eventually causes cellular resistance to endogenous insulin, and in the long term, damage to pancreatic islet cells. Insulin is typically prescribed later in the course of T2D, after trying several oral medications such as Metformin, Gliclazide, or Sitagliptin have been tried, when sufficient damage has been caused to pancreatic cells that the body is no longer able to produce insulin on its own.  Marketed as the brand name product Humulin R or Novolin R, human insulin begins to exert its effects within 30 minutes of subcutaneous administration, while peak levels occur 3-4 hours after administration. Due to its quick onset of action, human insulin is considered "bolus insulin" as it provides high levels of insulin in a short period of time to mimic the release of endogenous insulin from the pancreas after meals. Bolus insulin is often combined with once daily, long-acting "basal insulin" such as Insulin detemir, Insulin degludec, and Insulin glargine to provide low concentrations of background insulin that can keep blood sugar stable between meals or overnight. Use of basal and bolus insulin together is intended to mimic the pancreas' production of endogenous insulin, with a goal of avoiding any periods of hypoglycemia. Human insulin is also available in an inhalable form, intended to be used as a bolus meal-time insulin. Exubera was the first inhaled insulin available on the market and was developed by Inhale Therapeutics (later named Nektar Therapeutics). Unfortunately, limited uptake by physicians and patients, poor sales, bulky packaging, and concerns over the possible impact on lung cancer development resulted in Exubera products being withdrawn from the US markets 6. Exubera was followed by Afrezza, a monomeric inhaled insulin developed by Mannkind Corporation, which received FDA approval in 2016. While still available in the US, Afrezza has had similar concerns associated with its use, and had an FDA "black box" warning added to it to warn about use in patients with chronic lung disease. Afrezza does not currently have Health Canada or European Medicines Agency approval for marketing in Canada or the EU.  Human Insulin is a 51 residue peptide hormone produced by recombinant DNA technology by inserting the human insulin gene into Escherichia coli bacteria or Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The structure is identical to native human insulin, with two amino acid chains covalently linked by disulfide bonds.  Human insulin is also available in an intermediate-acting form as NPH (Neutral Protamine Hagedorn) as the marketed products Novolin N and Humulin N. NPH insulin is provided as a crystalline suspension of insulin with protamine and zinc, resulting in an onset of action in 1 to 3 hours, duration of action up to 24 hours, and peak action from 6 to 8 hours. Due to the added crystals, NPH insulin is typically cloudy when compared to other forms of insulin and has a neutral pH. Without an adequate supply of insulin to promote absorption of glucose from the bloodstream, blood sugar levels can climb to dangerously high levels and can result in symptoms such as fatigue, headache, blurred vision, and increased thirst. If left untreated, the body starts to break down fat, instead of glucose, for energy which results in a build-up of ketone acids in the blood and a syndrome called ketoacidosis, which is a life-threatening medical emergency. In the long term, elevated blood sugar levels increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, and diabetic neuropathy. Human insulin is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus. Insulin is a natural hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas. In non-diabetic individuals, a basal level of insulin is supplemented with insulin spikes following meals. Postprandial insulin spikes are responsible for the metabolic changes that occur as the body transitions from a postabsorptive to absorptive state. Insulin promotes cellular uptake of glucose, particularly in muscle and adipose tissues, promotes energy storage via glycogenesis, opposes catabolism of energy stores, increases DNA replication and protein synthesis by stimulating amino acid uptake by liver, muscle and adipose tissue, and modifies the activity of numerous enzymes involved in glycogen synthesis and glycolysis. Insulin also promotes growth and is required for the actions of growth hormone (e.g. protein synthesis, cell division, DNA synthesis).  The primary activity of insulin is the regulation of glucose metabolism. Insulin promotes glucose and amino acid uptake into muscle and adipose tissues, and other tissues except brain and liver. It also has an anabolic role in stimulating glycogen, fatty acid, and protein synthesis. Insulin inhibits gluconeogenesis in the liver.
CA4P | DrugBank Online CA4P (Combretastatin)has been shown in the laboratory to shut down the blood supply to tumours. It is one of the first vascular targeting drugs to be tested in patients. This drug was originally isolated from the African Bush Willow. The first studies in patients with this drug were aimed at finding out whether it can be safely given to patients, what side effects it produces and whether it can actually shut down the blood supply to human tumours.  CA4P binds tubulin with a higher efficacy than colchicines, and was therefore initially investigated as an anti-mitotic agent. However, it was later observed to also induce vascular shutdown and necrosis in tumours. Clinical trials have revealed its positive effects, either as a single agent or in combination with chemotherapy, in patients with ovarian, lung or anaplastic thyroid cancer.
Doxorubicin | DrugBank Online Doxorubicin is a cytotoxic anthracycline antibiotic isolated from cultures of Streptomyces peucetius var. caesius. Doxorubicin binds to nucleic acids, presumably by specific intercalation of the planar anthracycline nucleus with the DNA double helix. Doxorubicin is used to produce regression in disseminated neoplastic conditions like acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myeloblastic leukemia, Wilms’ tumor, neuroblastoma, soft tissue and bone sarcomas, breast carcinoma, ovarian carcinoma, transitional cell bladder carcinoma, thyroid carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, Hodgkin’s disease, malignant lymphoma and bronchogenic carcinoma in which the small cell histologic type is the most responsive compared to other cell types. Doxorubicin is also indicated for use as a component of adjuvant therapy in women with evidence of axillary lymph node involvement following resection of primary breast cancer. Doxorubicin is an antineoplastic in the anthracycline class. General properties of drugs in this class include: interaction with DNA in a variety of different ways including intercalation (squeezing between the base pairs), DNA strand breakage and inhibition with the enzyme topoisomerase II. Most of these compounds have been isolated from natural sources and antibiotics. However, they lack the specificity of the antimicrobial antibiotics and thus produce significant toxicity. The anthracyclines are among the most important antitumor drugs available. Doxorubicin is widely used for the treatment of several solid tumors while daunorubicin and idarubicin are used exclusively for the treatment of leukemia. Doxorubicin may also inhibit polymerase activity, affect regulation of gene expression, and produce free radical damage to DNA. Doxorubicin possesses an antitumor effect against a wide spectrum of tumors, either grafted or spontaneous. The anthracyclines are cell cycle-nonspecific. Doxorubicin has antimitotic and cytotoxic activity through a number of proposed mechanisms of action: Doxorubicin forms complexes with DNA by intercalation between base pairs, and it inhibits topoisomerase II activity by stabilizing the DNA-topoisomerase II complex, preventing the religation portion of the ligation-religation reaction that topoisomerase II catalyzes. The distributive half-life is 5 minutes, which suggests that doxorubicin is rapidly taken up by tissue.
Romiplostim | DrugBank Online Romiplostim is a thrombopoiesis stimulating dimer Fc-peptide fusion protein (peptibody) to increase platelet production through activation of the thrombopoietin receptor. The peptibody molecule has two identical single-chain subunits, each one is made up of 269 amino acid residues. Each subunit consists of an IgG1 Fc carrier domain that is covalently attached to a polypeptide sequence that contains two binding domains to interact with thrombopoietin receptor c-Mpl. Each domain consists of 14 amino acids. Interestingly, romiplostim's amino acid sequence is not similar to that of endogenous thrombopoietin. Romiplostim is produced by recombinant DNA technology in Escherichia coli. FDA approved on August 22, 2008. Treatment of chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura.  Responses to platelet increase varies between patients thus indicating a need for individualization of dose. However, a dose dependent-increase in platelet counts have been observed in clinical trials. Does not affect platelet destruction.  Romiplostim is a thrombopoietin receptor agonist that activates intracellular transcriptional pathways via c-Mpl to increase production of platelets. It also works similarly to thrombopoietin (TPO), an endogenous glycoprotein hormone that regulates the production of platelets in the bone marrow.  Cmax, healthy volunteers, subQ = 24-36 hours;
Cmax, immune thrombocytopenia patients, subQ = 7-50 hours (median = 14 hours).
Not affected by age, weight, or gender. Accumulation does not occur after six weekly doses of 3 mcg/kg romiplostim.  In healthy volunteers, non-linear decrease in Vd with increase IV dose of romiplostim which indicates saturation of c-Mpl receptors.
Vd, 0.3 μg/kg = 122 mL/kg
Vd, 10 μg/kg = 48.2 mL/kg  Renal clearance (more dominant mode of clearance as dose increases) and
binding to c-Mpl receptors (dominant mode of clearance at low doses)  Immune thrombocytopenia patients, subQ = 3.5 days (median) (range 1-34 days)  The most common adverse reactions (≥ 5% higher patient incidence in Nplate versus placebo) are arthralgia, dizziness, insomnia, myalgia, pain in extremity, abdominal pain, shoulder pain, dyspepsia, and paresthesia. Headache was the most commonly reported adverse reaction that did not occur at ≥ 5% higher patient incidence in Nplate versus placebo.
Ketoprofen | DrugBank Online Ketoprofen, a propionic acid derivative, is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAIA) with analgesic and antipyretic properties. For symptomatic treatment of acute and chronic rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, primary dysmenorrhea and mild to moderate pain associated with musculotendinous trauma (sprains and strains), postoperative (including dental surgery) or postpartum pain. Ketoprofen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAIA) with analgesic and antipyretic properties. Ketoprofen has pharmacologic actions similar to those of other prototypical NSAIDs, which inhibit prostaglandin synthesis. Ketoprofen is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, dysmenorrhea, and alleviate moderate pain. The anti-inflammatory effects of ketoprofen are believed to be due to inhibition cylooxygenase-2 (COX-2), an enzyme involved in prostaglandin synthesis via the arachidonic acid pathway. This results in decreased levels of prostaglandins that mediate pain, fever and inflammation. Ketoprofen is a non-specific cyclooxygenase inhibitor and inhibition of COX-1 is thought to confer some of its side effects, such as GI upset and ulceration. Ketoprofen is thought to have anti-bradykinin activity, as well as lysosomal membrane-stabilizing action. Antipyretic effects may be due to action on the hypothalamus, resulting in an increased peripheral blood flow, vasodilation, and subsequent heat dissipation.  Ketoprofen is rapidly and well-absorbed orally, with peak plasma levels occurring within 0.5 to 2 hours. 99% bound, primarily to albumin Rapidly and extensively metabolized in the liver, primarily via conjugation to glucuronic acid. No active metabolites have been identified.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners In a 24 hour period, approximately 80% of an administered dose of ketoprofen is excreted in the urine, primarily as the glucuronide metabolite. Conventional capsules: 1.1-4 hours
Extended release capsules: 5.4 hours due to delayed absorption (intrinsic clearance is same as conventional capsules) Extended release capsules: 5.4 hours due to delayed absorption (intrinsic clearance is same as conventional capsules) LD50=62.4 mg/kg (rat, oral).
Symptoms of overdose include drowsiness, vomiting and abdominal pain.
SSR-126517E | DrugBank Online SSR-126517E is a second generation synthetic pentasaccharide that binds antithrombin with such high affinity that it assumes a plasma half-life of 80 hours.  Investigated for use/treatment in thrombosis and venous thromboembolism. SSR126517E is a biotinylated form of idraparinux. It can be neutralized with intravenous recombinant avidin. Avidin binds biotinylated fondaparinux with high affinity, and the complex is then rapidly cleared. SSR126517E also has an advantage over idraparinux
in that an antidote is available when rapid reversal is
Ulipristal | DrugBank Online Ulipristal is a selective progesterone receptor modulator used for the purposes of emergency contraception (Ella) and for the treatment of uterine fibroids (Fibristal). It is a derivative of 19-norprogesterone and has both antagonistic and partial agonist activity at the progesterone receptor. It also binds to glucocorticoid receptor, however compared to mifepristone (a progesterone receptor antagonist), ulipristal is more tolerable and has lower glucocorticoid activity and better binding affinity.  Ulipristal is currently recommended as first line therapy for emergency contraception, due to improved efficacy and similar side effect profile as compared to the traditional use of levonorgestrel or the Yuzpe regimen. The exact mechanism of action for ulipristal is still currently debated, though there is evidence that it functions by inhibiting ovulation. A recent systematic review proclaimed that the majority of available evidence demonstrates an inhibitory effect on ovulation rather than a post-fertilization effect on the endometrium, which has been heavily debated due to ethical concerns related to abortion (Rosato et al, 2016). Nevertheless, current and ongoing research into the agent's mechanism of action as an emergency contraceptive continue to provide potentially plausible evidence that ulipristal may, in fact, elicit activity on the endometrium that prevents embryo implantation 10,11,12. As the product Ella (available in Canada and the US), ulipristal is indicated for use as emergency contraception after unprotected intercourse or possible contraceptive failure when administered within 120 hours (5 days) after unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure. As the product Fibristal (available in Canada), ulipristal is indicated for treatment of the signs and symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women. Ulipristal is a selective, reversible progestin receptor modulator and its tissue targets include the uterus, cervix, ovaries, and hypothalamus. Ulipristal may act as an agonist or antagonist in the presence or absence of progesterone based on the tissue target. If given mid-follicular phase, development of the follicle growth is delayed and estradiol concentrations decrease. If given at the time when luteinizing hormone peaks, follicular rapture is delayed by several days. If given early-luteal phase, a decrease in endometrial thickness can be observed.  The exact mechanism of action of ulipristal has been heavily debated Label 9,10,11,12. On one hand, the majority of official prescribing information labels, monographs, and prior research studies for ulipristal indicated as an emergency contraceptive suggest that its primary mechanism of action revolves around inhibiting or delaying ovulation by suppressing surges in LH that result in the postponement of follicular rupture 9,13,15. Conversely, some of the latest investigations pertaining to ulipristal's mechanism of action as an emergency contraceptive propose that it principally elicits its action by preventing embryo implantation, as opposed to preventing ovulation 10,11,12. Although previous investigations have shown that ulipristal essentially has the ability to prevent ovulation equivalent to placebo (ie. null effect or ability) when administered during LH peaks one to two days before ovulation, the agent still demonstrates a stable and consistently high contraceptive effect of approximately >=80% when used at this time 10. Subsequently, current studies attempt to investigate how ulipristal could elicit emergency contraception via ovulation prevention under circumstances where ovulation had already clearly been observed 10,11,12. Endometrial biopsy samples studied from such circumstances in such investigations subsequently show that the administered ulipristal causes endometrial tissue to become inhospitable and unsuitable for embryo implantation where a variety of genes characteristic of receptive, pro-gestational endometrium are downregulated 10,11,12.  Nevertheless, most if not all proposed mechanisms commonly agree that ulipristal ultimately demonstrates its pharmacological effects by binding to human progesterone receptors and prevents natural, endogenous progesterone from occupying such receptors 9,13,15,10,11,12. Regardless, however, considering current and on-going research into ulipristal's ability to prevent embryo implantation, the notion that the medication can elicit post-fertilization effects potentially raises alerts and/or ethical debates over the use of ulipristal owing to potential abortifacient activity 9,10,11,12, which is considered to be on par or equipotent to that of mifepristone 14. Attention should be drawn to the fact that some prescribing information, however, such as the US FDA label for ulipristal indicated for emergency contraception, has included new supplementary commentary since 2018 that directly warns about ulipristal not being indicated for termination of existing pregnancies and suggesting that ulipristal use may confer alterations to the endometrium that may affect implantation and contribute to efficacy Label.  In the treatment of fibroids, ulipristal has been shown to exert direct actions on fibroids reducing their size through inhibition of cell proliferation and induction of apoptosis. Tmax, healthy subjects, single oral dose = 60-90 minutes;
Cmax, healthy subjects, single oral dose = 176 ± 89 ng/mL;
PX-12 | DrugBank Online PX-12 (1-methylpropyl 2-imidazolyl disulfide) is a small-molecule inhibitor of Trx-1 (thioredoxin-1), stimulates apoptosis, down-regulates HIF-1α and vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) and inhibits tumor growth in animal models. Since high levels of Trx-1 have been associated with colorectal, gastric and lung cancers, PX-12 is indicated as a potential cancer treatment in combination with chemotherapy for patients with advanced metastatic cancer. Initial trials correlated doses of Px-12 with increased patient survival. Investigated for use/treatment in cancer/tumors (unspecified), gastric cancer, and pancreatic cancer. PX-12 is a small molecule irreversible inhibitor of the redox protein thioredoxin. Thioredoxin is involved in the first unique step in DNA synthesis. Thioredoxin also provides control over a number of transcription factors affecting cell proliferation and death through the mechanism of redox regulation
Trx regulates cell growth through the following steps:
1) Trx is reduced into its active state, Trx (red) by the enzyme thioredoxin reductase.
2) Trx enters the nucleus to regulate transcription factor activity (factors which affect DNA replication).
FM-VP4 | DrugBank Online FM-VP4, is a novel hydrophilic phytostanol analogue representing a new class in cholesterol-lowering drugs called cholesterol absorption inhibitors. FM-VP4 has been shown to inhibit cholesterol absorption and to lower plasma LDL-cholesterol and total cholesterol in a broad range of animal species. Additional experiments suggest that FM-VP4 can reduce plasma LDL cholesterol levels and triglyceride levels, reduce weight gain and exert a anti-atherosclerosis effect. Investigated for use/treatment in hyperlipidemia and cancer/tumors (unspecified). Monotherapy is recommended for people with marginally high LDL-cholesterol or who cannot be prescribed statins due to drug interactions and safety concerns. Combination Therapy is recommended if statin therapy alone is either insufficient to achieve the guidelines set by the NCEP or there is concern over side effects as Statin doses can be lowered in combination treatment without losing efficacy. FM VP4 is thought to bind competitively with cholesterol to MDR1 resulting in a synergistic decrease in cholesterol accumlation. Others have suggested that FM VP4 may act by inhibiting a transporter that mediates intestinal absorption of cholesterol.  FM VP4 is thought to bind competitively with cholesterol to MDR1 resulting in a synergistic decrease in cholesterol accumlation. Others have suggested that FM VP4 may act by inhibiting a transporter that mediates intestinal absorption of cholesterol.
ISS-1018 | DrugBank Online ISS 1018 is a short, synthetic, unmethylated CpG oligodeoxynucleotide (CpG ODN) with immunostimulatory activity. ISS 1018 signals through Toll-like receptor 9 (TLR9) to induce the production of immunoglobulin by B cells and interferon (IFN) -alpha, IFN-beta, interleukin-12 (IL-12), and tumor necrosis factor - alpha (TNF-alpha) by plasmacytoid dendritic cells (pDC). ISS 1018 CpG ODN promotes antigen presentation and co-stimulatory molecule expression. ISS 1018 is currently being investigated in combination with HBsAg vaccine as a prophylactic treatment for to prevent Hepatitis B in adults. It is also being investigated in combination with rituximab for treatment of b-cell or non-hodgkin's lymphoma. Investigated for use/treatment in colorectal cancer, hepatitis (viral, B), and lymphoma (non-hodgkin's).
NOX-700 | DrugBank Online NOX-700, an new orally active dithiocarbamate-based nitric oxide (NO) blocking agent that is in development for the treatment of diabetes mellitus (type 2 diabetes). In animal studies, NOX-700 lowered serum glucose, improved glucose tolerance, and reduced the percentage of total glycated hemoglobin. Immunohistochemical studies on
pancreatic tissue also showed that NOX-700 therapy effectively preserved islet structure and increased insulin immunoreactivity. It has since been found that oxidative signaling of the redox-sensitive transcription factor, NF-κB, and inhibiting protein glycation are responsible for the drug's therapeutic effects. Investigated for use/treatment in diabetes mellitus (type 2). NOX-700 is an orally active nitric oxide (NO) blocking agent in development for the treatment of diabetes mellitus (type 2). In animal studies, NOX-700 lowered serum glucose, improved glucose tolerance, and reduced the percentage of total glycated hemoglobin. Immunohistochemical studies on
R667 | DrugBank Online R667 is an orally active, gamma selective retinoid agonist that shows promise as a treatment for emhysema, as it has, in animal models, promoted structural lung repair and functional improvement with fewer side effects. It is currently in Phase II Trials for emphysema secondary to alpha-1 antitrypsin
R411 | DrugBank Online R411 is a non-steroid oral medicine for the treatment of asthma. It is not immunosuppressive, but blocks the activation and recruitment of cells involved in respiratory inflammation. It is a dual-acting competitive integrin antagonist (as compared to previously developed single integrin antagonists or SIAs) that prevents binding of V-CAM1 to either a4b1 or a4b7.  Investigated for use/treatment in asthma. R411 is a non-steroid oral medicine for the treatment of asthma. It is not immunosuppressive, but blocks the activation and recruitment of cells involved in respiratory inflammation. It is a dual-acting competitive integrin antagonist (as compared to previously developed single integrin antagonists or SIAs) that prevents binding of V-CAM1 to either a4b1 or a4b7.  R411 prevents binding of V-CAM1 to either a4b1 or a4b7.  Good safety profile observed in preclinical and clinical
T487 | DrugBank Online T487 is a small molecule chemokine receptor antagonist to correct or modify immune system responses. It binds selectively and potently to CXCR3. The formulation is administered orally and has anti-inflammatory effects in conditions such as rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and psoriasis. Investigated for use/treatment in inflammatory disorders
PBI-1402 | DrugBank Online PBI-1402 is a small molecule synthetic compound with oral
Bioavailability. The compound activates neutrophils, enhancing their survival and activation with comparable efficacy to GM-CSF, G-CSF and EPO, which are currently used to treat anemia. However, it has been shown that when co-administered with these compounds, effects are additive, making PBI-1402 an excellent candidate for combination therapy and asserting its independent mechanism of action. PBI-1402 appears to work on the PMN pathway, but its specific binding properties are not known. PBI-1402 has a dual therapeutic action; as a chemoprotectant and hematopoietic progenitor stimulator. Since it stimulates immune activity, it has been considered as a candidate for cancer treatment as well as anemia. Investigated for use/treatment in adverse effects (chemotherapy), anemia, and chemotherapy. PBI-1402 is a small molecule synthetic compound with oral
AMG-131 | DrugBank Online AMG-131 (T131), an orally-administered therapy, is expected to lower blood glucose in type II diabetic patients by improving the body’s ability to respond to insulin. T131 is a selective modulator of PPARg (peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma), a receptor involved in regulating the body’s ability to respond to insulin. T131 is not structurally related to the thiazolidinedione class of PPARg agonists, which includes Actos and Avandia. Investigated for use/treatment in diabetes mellitus type 2. T131, an orally-administered therapy, is expected to lower blood glucose in type II diabetic patients by improving the body’s ability to respond to insulin. T131 is not structurally related to the thiazolidinedione class of PPARg agonists, which includes Actos and Avandia T131 is a selective modulator of PPARg (peroxisome proliferator activated receptor gamma), a receptor involved in regulating the body’s ability to respond to insulin. T131 is not structurally related to the thiazolidinedione class of PPARg agonists, which includes Actos and Avandia In preclinical studies comparing T131 to Avandia, T131
demonstrated superior potency and an improved side effect profile. In these studies, T131 treatment did not result in fluid retention or cardiac hypertrophy. In Phase 1 studies
KW-7158 | DrugBank Online KW-7158 is a tricyclic compound with a non-cholingergic mechanism of action for the treatment of "urinary urgency," "frequent urination" and "urinary incontinence" associated with bladder overactivity (involuntary abnormal contraction of the bladder). The therapeutic effects of KW-7158 in overactive bladder may be due to the activation of A-type K(+) channels which regulate afferent neuron excitability and firing properties in the dorsal root ganglion neurons. Investigated for use/treatment in urinary incontinence. KW-7158 is a tricyclic compound with a non-cholingergic mechanism of action for the treatment of "urinary urgency," "frequent urination" and "urinary incontinence" associated with bladder overactivity (involuntary abnormal contraction of the bladder).
AMD-070 | DrugBank Online AMD-070 is a small molecule drug candidate that belongs to a new investigational class of anti-HIV drugs known as entry (fusion) inhibitors. Currently there is only one FDA-approved entry inhibitor, enfuvirtide (Fuzeon), that is available for the treatment of HIV infection. Several experimental entry inhibitors are now in early stage testing, including AMD-070, which targets the CXCR4 receptor on HIV and prevents the virus from entering and infecting healthy cells. Other entry inhibitors target the CCR5 receptor of HIV.These new agents are widely viewed as next generation anti-HIV drugs with the potential to significantly advance HIV therapeutics. Investigated for use/treatment in HIV infection. AMD-070 is a small molecule drug candidate that belongs to a new investigational class of anti-HIV drugs known as entry (fusion) inhibitors. Approximately 76% of HIV-patients with measurable viral load are infected with a strain of virus that is resistant to one or more classes of antiretroviral agents, thus reducing treatment options. Unlike many existing HIV drugs that target the virus after it has infected a healthy cell, AMD-070 blocks the virus from entering a healthy cell, thus preventing the replication process. AMD-070 targets the CXCR4 receptor on HIV and prevents the virus from entering and infecting healthy cells.
* AMD-070 is specific for the CXCR4 receptor and does not interact with any other chemokine receptors in vitro
* AMD-070 strongly inhibits viral infection by all CXCR4 using virus (including virus using CXCR4 alone and/or virus using CXCR4 and CCR5) in vitro
* AMD-070 is orally bioavailable in animals
* Suitable PK and toxicity profile for oral dosing
* AMD-070 shows additive or synergistic effects in vitro in combination with other known anti-HIV agents
* AMD-070 is active against CXCR4 using HIV strains that are resistant to existing antiretroviral therapies in vitro
AG-858 | DrugBank Online AG-858 (autologous heat-shock protein 70 peptide vaccine) is
NM-702 | DrugBank Online Nissan Chemical and Taisho have been jointly developing NM-702, a drug for the treatment of arteriosclerosis obliterans. M-702 is an orally active inhibitor of phosphodiesterase and thromboxane synthetase. In Japan, Phase 2 studies are being conducted for intermittent claudication caused by arteriosclerosis obliterans, intermittent claudication caused by spinal canal stenosis, and asthma. In the USA, a Phase 2 study for intermittent claudication caused by arteriosclerosis obliterans has been successfully completed.
ISIS 113715 | DrugBank Online ISIS 113715 is our second-generation antisense inhibitor of protein tyrosine phosphatase 1b, or PTP‑1b, for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. In early trials, ISIS 113715 induced statistically significant improvements in multiple measures of glucose control along with statistically significant
reductions in LDL-cholesterol.  Investigated for use/treatment in diabetes mellitus type 2. Because ISIS 113715 is an insulin sensitizer that acts by increasing the activity of the insulin receptor in response to insulin, the most logical place for this drug in the diabetes treatment regimen is as an adjunct to insulin therapy. ISIS 113715 has a novel mechanism of PTP-1b inhibiting action, and acts as an insulin signal enhancer with anti-obesity and lipid lowering potential. PTP‑1b has long been recognized as an attractive target for treatment of diabetes, but due to structural similarities among closely related proteins, it has been difficult to identify small molecule drugs with sufficient specificity to be
Piclidenoson | DrugBank Online CF 101 (known generically as IB-MECA) is an anti-inflammatory drug for rheumatoid arthritis patients. Its novel mechanism of action relies on antagonism of adenoside A3 receptors.
CF101 is supplied as an oral drug and has an excellent safety profile. It is also being considered for the treatment of other autoimmune-inflammatory disorders, such as Crohn's disease, psorasis and dry eye syndrome. Investigated for use/treatment in cancer/tumors (unspecified), eye disorders/infections, psoriasis and psoriatic disorders, and rheumatoid arthritis.
Pralatrexate | DrugBank Online Pralatrexate is an antimetabolite for the treatment of relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma. It is more efficiently retained in cancer cells than methotrexate. FDA approved on September 24, 2009. Treatment of relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma.  Pralatrexate is a 10-deazaaminopterin analogue of methotrexate. Compared to methotrexate, pralatrexate binds to RTC-1 with 10-times the affinity and is a more potent substrate for FPGS. As a result, pralatrexate is better internalized and retained in cancer cells and is more cytotoxic.
Km, pralatrexate = 0.3 μmol/L;
Km, methotrexate = 4.8 μmol/L;
Vmax/Km (rate of intracellular transport), pralatrexate = 12.6
Vmax/Km (rate of intracellular transport), methotrexate = 0.9  The selectivity of pralatrexate for cancer cells is based upon the observation that cancer cells generally have an overexpression of reduced folate carrier protein-1 (RTC-1) compared to normal somatic cells. This carrier protein allows the entrance of pralatrexate into the cell. Upon entering the cell, folypolyglutamate synthase FPGS catalyzes the polyglutamination of pralatrexate so that it is retained inside the cell.
Once inside, pralatrexate competitively inhibits dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) and thymidylate synthase. Subsequent depletion of thymidine monophosphate (TMP) occurs so that the cancer cell is unable to synthesize DNA and RNA. As a result, the cancer cell cannot proliferate and is forced to undergo apoptosis. Pralatrexate is more effective against cells that are actively dividing.  Pralatrexate demonstrates linear pharmacokinetics with a multiphasic decline with both diasteromers over dose range of 30-325 mg/m^2.
Bioavailability, nonformulated preparation = 13 - 20% Vss, R-pralatrexate = 37 L
Vss, S-pralatrexate = 105 L  67 - 86% bound to plasma protein, albumin is the major binder. Does not significantly displace substrates from proteins.  No involvement of CYP450 enzyme system or glucuronidases.  35% of drug is excreted unchanged in the urine (no difference between R- and S- pralatrexate). May be some net renal tubular excretion.  12-18 hours  R- pralatrexate = 191 mL/min
S- pralatrexate = 417 mL/min
Sufentanil | DrugBank Online Sufentanil is an opioid analgesic that is used as an adjunct in anesthesia, in balanced anesthesia, and as a primary anesthetic agent. It is administered by the intravenous, epidural and sublingual routes.  Also known as Dsuvia, the sublingual form is used for the management of acute pain in adults that is severe to warrant the use of an opioid analgesic in certified medically supervised healthcare settings, including hospitals, surgical centers, and emergency departments 10. Consideration may be made in the future for the use of the sublingual form in the US military in cases where analgesia is required immediately 11. The sublingual form, manufactured by AcelRx Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (AcelRx), was approved on November 2, 2018 10.
This route of administration is intended to be a simple, effective, non-invasive analgesic option to enable healthcare professionals to rapidly manage acute pain without difficult intravenous or epidural administration 10, 4. The indications for this drug are as follows: As an analgesic adjunct in the maintenance of balanced general anesthesia in patients who are intubated and ventilated. As a primary anesthetic agent for the induction and maintenance of anesthesia with 100% oxygen in patients undergoing major surgical procedures, in patients who are intubated and ventilated, such as cardiovascular surgery or neurosurgical procedures in the sitting position, to provide favorable myocardial and cerebral oxygen balance or when extended postoperative ventilation is anticipated. For epidural administration as an analgesic combined with low dose (usually 12.5 mg per administration) bupivacaine usually during labor and vaginal delivery  The sublingual form is indicated for the management of acute pain in adults that is severe to warrant the use of an opioid analgesic in certified medically supervised healthcare settings, including hospitals, surgical centers, and emergency departments. Label Effect on the Central Nervous System (CNS) In clinical settings, sufentanil exerts its principal pharmacologic effects on the central nervous system. Its primary therapeutic actions are analgesia and sedation. Sufentanil may increase pain tolerance and decrease the perception of pain. This drug depresses the respiratory centers, depresses the cough reflex, and constricts the pupils 12, 9. When used in balanced general anesthesia, sufentanil has been reported to be as much as 10 times as potent as fentanyl. When administered intravenously as a primary anesthetic agent with 100% oxygen, sufentanil is approximately 5 to 7 times as potent as fentanyl Label. High doses of intravenous sufentanil have been shown to cause muscle rigidity, likely as a result of an effect on the substantia nigra and the striate nucleus in the brain. Sleep-inducing (hypnotic) activity can be demonstrated by EEG alterations Label. Effects on the Respiratory System Sufentanil may cause respiratory depression Label. Effects on the Cardiovascular System Sufentanil causes peripheral vasodilation which may result in orthostatic hypotension or syncope. Bradycardia may also occur 12. Clinical signs or symptoms of histamine release and/or peripheral vasodilation may include pruritus, flushing, red eyes and sweating and/or orthostatic hypotension Label. Effects on the Gastrointestinal Tract Sufentanil causes a reduction in motility associated with an increase in smooth muscle tone in both the antrum of the stomach and duodenum. Digestion of food in the small intestine may be delayed and propulsive contractions are decreased. Propulsive peristaltic waves in the colon are decreased, while tone may be increased and lead to spasm, resulting in constipation. Other opioid-induced effects may include a reduction in biliary and pancreatic secretions, spasm of the sphincter of Oddi, as well as temporary elevations in serum amylase Label. Sufentanil is a synthetic, potent opioid with highly selective binding to μ-opioid receptors 12. These receptors are widely distributed in the human brain, spinal cord, and other tissues 8, 9. In general, opioids decrease cAMP (affecting neural signaling pathways), decrease neurotransmitter release, and cause membrane hyperpolarization, all of which contribute to the relief of painful symptoms 9. Opiate receptors are coupled with G-protein receptors and function as both positive and negative regulators of synaptic neural transmission via G-proteins that activate effector proteins. Binding of the opiate receptor leads to the exchange of GTP for GDP on the G-protein complex. As the effector system is adenylate cyclase and cAMP, located at the inner surface of the plasma membrane, opioids decrease intracellular cAMP by inhibiting adenylate cyclase. The release of nociceptive neurotransmitters such as substance P, GABA, dopamine, acetylcholine, and noradrenaline is then inhibited 9.  Opioids close N-type voltage-operated calcium channels (OP2-receptor agonist), also preventing neurotransmitter release 9. Sufentanil and other opioids open calcium-dependent inwardly rectifying potassium channels, resulting in hyperpolarization and reduced neuronal excitability 8, 9.  Bioavailability of a single sublingual tablet was 52%, decreasing to 35% with repeat dosing 5. After epidural administration of incremental doses totaling 5 to 40 mcg sufentanil during labor and delivery, maternal and neonatal sufentanil plasma concentrations were at or near the 0.05 to 0.1 ng/mL limit of detection, and were slightly higher in mothers than in their infants Label. Sufentanil has a distribution time of 1.4 minutes and redistribution time of 17.1 minutes Label.
The central volume of distribution after intravenous application of sufentanil is approximately 14 L and the volume of distribution at steady state is approximately 350 L 12. Plasma protein binding of sufentanil, related to the alpha acid glycoprotein concentration, was approximately 93% in healthy males, 91% in mothers and 79% in neonates Label. The liver and small intestine are the major sites of biotransformation Label.
Sufentanil is rapidly metabolized to a number of inactive metabolites, with oxidative N- and O-dealkylation being the major routes of elimination 12. Approximately 80% of the administered dose is excreted within 24 hours and only 2% of the dose is eliminated as unchanged drug Label. The elimination half-life is 164 minutes in adults when administered intravenously (IV). The elimination half-life of sufentanil is shorter (e.g. 97 +/- 42 minutes) in infants and children, and longer in neonates (e.g. 434 +/- 160 minutes) compared to that of adolescents and adults Label. After a single administration of a 15 microgram sufentanil sublingual tablet, mean terminal phase half-lives in the range of 6-10 hours have been observed. After multiple administrations, a longer average terminal half-life of up to 18 hours was measured, owing to the higher plasma concentrations of sufentanil achieved after repeated dosing and due to the possibility to quantify these concentrations over a longer time period 12. The total plasma clearance after single intravenous administration is about 917 l/min 12. The clearance of sufentanil in healthy neonates is approximately one-half that in adults and children. The clearance rate of sufentanil can be further reduced by up to a third in neonates with cardiovascular disease Label.  LD50: 18.7 mg/kg (IV in mice) MSDS A Note on Respiratory Depression Major, life-threatening, or fatal respiratory depression has been reported with the use of opioids, even in cases where it is used as recommended. Respiratory depression may lead to respiratory arrest and death if not diagnosed and treated appropriately. This drug should be administered only by persons specifically trained in the use of anesthetic drugs and the management of the respiratory effects of potent opioids, including respiration and cardiac resuscitation of patients in the age group being treated. This training must include the establishment and maintenance of a patent airway and assisted ventilation Label. Carcinogenesis
Long-term studies in animals to evaluate the carcinogenic potential of sufentanil have not been conducted Label. Mutagenesis
Ustekinumab | DrugBank Online Ustekinumab is a human immunoglobulin (Ig) G1 kappa monoclonal antibody directed against interleukin(IL)-12 and IL-23, which are cytokines that are involved in immune and inflammatory responses.2 It was generated via recombinant human IL-12 immunization of human Ig (hu-Ig) transgenic mice.2 It is a targeted biologic disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drug (bDMARDs) that is used in the management of various inflammatory conditions that involve the activation of IL-12 and IL-23 signalling pathways.1 The therapeutic use of the drug started in Canada, the US, and Europe since 2009 when it was first approved for the treatment of adult patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis and active psoriatic arthritis, alone or in combination with methotrexate. In September 2016, ustekinumab was additionally approved for the management of moderate to severe Crohn's disease in selected adult patients. In October 2019, it was also approved by the FDA for use to manage moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adults. Ustekinumab is currently the first and only approved biologic therapy for ulcerative colitis that targets the interleukin (IL)-12 and IL-23 cytokines.8 The dosing regimen for ustekinumab is based on the patient's weight and there are intravenous and subcutaneous formulations of the drug based on the dosing schedule and condition being treated. Ustekinumab is commonly marketed under the trade name STELARA®. Ustekinumab is indicated for the management of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis in children aged 6 and above, adolescents, and adults who are candidates for phototherapy or systemic therapy.6,7 It is indicated for the management of active psoriatic arthritis in adults, alone or in combination with methotrexate.6 It is indicated for the management of moderately to severely active Crohn’s disease in adults who were clinically unresponsive or intolerant to immunomodulator or corticosteroid therapy (but never failed a tutor necrosis factor (TNF) blocker) or treatment with one or more TNF blockers.6 It is indicated for the management of moderately to severely active ulcerative colitis in adults.7 Ustekinumab is a targeted antibody therapy that suppresses immune responses. It acts by reducing the signaling pathways of pro-inflammatory cytokines IL-12 and IL-23, which play a role in various inflammatory conditions.7 It downregulates the gene expression of inflammatory cytokines and chemokines such as MCP-1, TNF-alpha, IP-10, and IL-8.9 The formation of cytochrome P-450 enzymes may be altered by elevated levels of certain cytokines during chronic inflammation.6 Research shows that there is an inverse relationship between plasma levels of inflammatory cytokines and CYP450 enzyme formation and activity. While ustekinumab may potentially normalize the formation of CYP enzymes and enhance the CYP-mediated metabolism of drugs,5 there were no clinically significant effects on human CYP enzyme activities.7 The steady-state was achieved by 28 weeks after multiple subcutaneous dose administration in adult patients with psoriasis.7 Interleukin (IL)-12 and IL-23 are heterodimeric cytokines that evoke immune and inflammatory responses, such as natural killer cell activation and CD4+ T-cell differentiation and activation.6,7 The role of IL-12 and IL-23 were implicated in a variety of chronic inflammatory conditions, such as psoriasis and inflammatory bowel diseases. They modulate lymphocyte function, including T-helper (Th) 1 and Th17 cell subsets,2 as CD4+ T cells can differentiate into T-helper (Th) effector lineages based on the environment. Th cells can further activate the downstream pro-inflammatory mediators and transcription factors such as TNFα and IFNγ that drive innate and adaptive immunity.4  IL-12 and IL-23 share a common p40 subunit, paired with p35 and p19 subunits of IL-12 and IL-23, respectively.
Mirabegron | DrugBank Online Mirabegron is a beta-3 adrenergic receptor agonist for the management of overactive bladder. It is an alternative to antimuscarinic drugs for this indication. FDA approved on June 28, 2012. Mirabegron is a beta-3 adrenergic agonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder (OAB) with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and urinary frequency. Mirabegron has little effect on the mean maximum flow rate or mean detrusor pressure at maximum flow rate in patients with lower urinary tract symptoms and bladder outlet obstruction. Furthermore, mirabegron increases blood pressure in a dose dependent manner. However, this effect is reversible when mirabegron is discontinued. Mirabegron also increases heart rate in a dose dependent manner. The dose in which half-maximal efficacy is demonstrated is 25 mg. Comparatively, the dose in which maximal efficacy is demonstrated is 100 mg.  Mirabegron is a potent and selective agonist for beta-3 adrenergic receptors. Once beta-3 receptors are activated, the detrusor smooth muscle relaxes to allow for a larger bladder capacity. At higher doses (200 mg), there is a potential for mirabegron to activate beta-1 and beta-2 adrenergic receptors.  The absolute bioavailability increases from 29% at a dose of 25 mg to 35% at a dose of 50 mg. Mean Cmax and AUC increase more than dose proportionally. This relationship is more apparent at doses above 50 mg. Females generally have a lower magnitude of increase of Cmax and AUCtau compared to males when doses of mirabegron doubles or quadruples. Steady state concentrations are achieved within 7 days of once daily dosing with mirabegron. After once daily administration, plasma exposure of mirabegron at steady state is approximately double that seen after a single dose.
Tmax, oral dose, healthy subjects= 3.5 hours; Vd, steady state, IV dose = 1670 L. This high value suggests that mirabegron is extensively distributed in the body.  71% bound to plasma proteins. It binds to albumin and alpha-1-acid glycoprotein with moderate affinity.  Mirabegron is metabolized via multiple pathways involving dealkylation, oxidation, (direct) glucuronidation, and amide hydrolysis. The major circulating entity is mirabegron. Two major and inactive metabolites (phase 2 glucuronides) are produced. Although mirabegron is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, its role in the elimination of the drug is limited. Studies also suggest that CYP3A4 is the main enzyme that facilitates the oxidative metabolism of the drug. Furthermore, butylcholinesterase, uridine diphospho-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT), and possibly alcohol dehydrogenase may be involved with the metabolism of mirabegron.  Mirabegron is eliminated via urine (radiolabeled drug: 55%; unchanged drug: ~25%) and feces (radiolabeled drug: 34%; unchanged drug: 0%). Renal elimination of mirabegron is primarily through active tubular secretion and glomerular filtration. Extent of elimination via urine is dose-dependent.  Terminal elimination half-life = 50 hours  Total body clearance (CLtot), IV dose = 57 L/h;
CYT006-AngQb | DrugBank Online CYT006-AngQb is a therapeutic vaccine in development for treatment of hypertension. It is designed to instruct the patient’s immune system to produce an antibody response against angiotensin II, a small peptide that causes blood vessels to narrow and results in increased blood pressure. It is a unique treatment modality that aims to address the issue of patient compliance by offering convenient dosing schedules due to the long-lasting effect induced by vaccination. Investigated for use/treatment in hypertension. The so called renin-angiotensin system (RAS) is an important regulator of blood pressure and has already been successfully targeted by three major classes of
antihypertensive drugs: by ACE inhibitors, by ARBs and by renin inhibitors. However, like other antihypertensives, they all have to be self-administered daily and don't
provide a good solution for improving patient compliance. CYT006-AngQb is a therapeutic vaccine designed to instruct
the patient’s immune system to produce a specific anti-angiotensin II antibody response. Angiotensin II is a small hormone in the body and part of the RAS. It causes blood vessels to narrow, resulting in an increase in blood pressure. Vaccination of humans with CYT006-AngQb has been shown to induce angiotensin II specific antibodies that should inhibit binding of angiotensin II to its receptors
AGS-004 | DrugBank Online AGS-004 is a personalized RNA-loaded dendritic cellbased
Dihydroergotamine | DrugBank Online A 9,10alpha-dihydro derivative of ergotamine. It is used as a vasoconstrictor, specifically for the therapy of migraine disorders. For the acute treatment of migraine headaches with or without aura and the acute treatment of cluster headache episodes. Dihydroergotamine is indicated for the acute treatment of migraine headaches with or without aura and the acute treatment of cluster headache episodes. Dihydroergotamine binds with high affinity to 5-HT1Da and 5-HT1Db receptors. It also binds with high affinity to serotonin 5-HT1A, 5-HT2A, and 5-HT2C receptors, noradrenaline a2A, a2B and a receptors, and dopamine D2L and D3 receptors. The therapeutic activity of Dihydroergotamine in migraine is generally attributed to the agonist effect at 5-HT1D receptors. Two theories have been proposed to explain the efficacy of 5-HT1D receptor agonists in migraine: 1) activation of 5-HT1D receptors located on intracranial blood vessels, including those on arterio-venous anastomoses, leads to vasoconstriction, which correlates with the relief of migraine headache and 2) activation of 5-HT1D receptors on sensory nerve endings of the trigeminal system results in the inhibition of pro-inflammatory neuropeptide release. Interpatient variable and may be dependent on the administration technique 93% (to plasma proteins) Hepatic The major excretory route of dihydroergotamine is via the bile in the feces.
CYT007-TNFQb | DrugBank Online CYT007-TNFQb is an active immunization therapy that aims at
providing a novel treatment to people suffering from RA or psoriasis. The vaccine should allow for administration of low
Levosalbutamol | DrugBank Online Levosalbutamol, or levalbuterol, is a short-acting β2 adrenergic receptor agonist used in the treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
ATX-201 | DrugBank Online ATX-201 is one of a family of novel compounds that inhibits microtubule polymerization. It is developed by Kythera Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. for the treatment of actinic
Alkaline Phosphatase | DrugBank Online Alkaline Phosphatase (AP) is an oral treatment and has a very
favorable side-effect profile. AP only acts locally in the colon to reduce the continuous inflammation of the colon by endotoxin from Gram-negative bacteria and extracellular ATP in UC patients. Investigated for use/treatment in ulcerative colitis. Patients with UC have reduced AP levels and activity in the inflamed tissue in the intestines. A short treatment with AP helps to restore the intestinal mucosal barrier in UC patients, which can be classified as a disease modifying antiinflammatory effect. Two substrates that can disturb the homeostasis in
human organs are endotoxin from Gram-negative bacteria (LPS) and adenosine triphosphate (ATP). Dephosphorylation of LPS and extracellular ATP by AP has been shown to result in restoration of homeostasis in the target organs such as GI tract and kidney, through reduction of inflammationinduced
damage. In the gastrointestinal tract, the prime source of LPS is derived from the residing Gram-negative microorganisms. In UC patients the mucosal surface of the colon wall is characterized by intermittent lesions and hyperpermeability caused by chronic inflammation. A consequence of the damaged intestinal mucosa is a reduced AP level and an increased influx of LPS responsive cells that
maintain the inflammatory response. In the gastrointestinal tract, the prime source of LPS is derived from the residing Gram-negative microorganisms. AP reduces LPS-mediated
inflammation, by preventing activation of the intestinal epithelium and preventing systemic inflammatory responses that result from transmigration of endotoxin though the
Trastuzumab emtansine | DrugBank Online Trastuzumab emtansine, formerly called Trastuzumab-DM1 (T-DM1) is a first-in-class HER2 antibody drug conjugate (ADC) comprised of Genentech's trastuzumab antibody linked to ImmunoGen's cell-killing agent, DM1. T-DM1 combines two strategies-- anti-HER2 activity and targeted intracellular delivery of the potent anti-microtubule agent, DM1 (a maytansine derivative)--to produce cell cycle arrest and apoptosis. Trastuzumab emtansine is marketed under the brand name Kadcyla and is indicated for use in HER2-positive, metastatic breast cancer patients who have already used taxane and/or trastuzumab for metastatic disease or had their cancer recur within 6 months of adjuvant treatment. The FDA label has two precautions. First that trastuzumab emtansine and trastuzumab cannot be interchanged. Second that there is a black box warning of serious side effects such as hepatotoxicity, embryo-fetal toxicity, and cardiac toxicity. Used in HER2-positive, metastatic breast cancer patients who have already used taxane and/or trastuzumab for metastatic disease or had their cancer recur within 6 months of adjuvant treatment. Trastuzumab emtansine was evaluated in two Herceptin-responsive and one Herceptin-resistant breast tumor models. In the Herceptin-responsive models, Trastuzumab-DM1 caused complete tumor regression in all mice, whereas Herceptin alone slowed tumor growth. In the Herceptin- resistant model, Herceptin alone had no effect on tumor growth. In contrast, Trastuzumab-DM1 caused >90% tumor reduction in all mice. In this Herceptin- resistant model, tumor regrowth was observed after cessation of Trastuzumab- DM1 treatment, yet regression re-occurred when dosing was resumed. The effect was specific for HER2-positive tumors. Thus the physiological effects of trastuzumab emtansine are cell cycle arrest and cell death by apoptosis.  Trastuzumab emtansine is a HER2 antibody drug conjugate. The antibody portion is trastuzumab, which is humanized anti-HER2 IgG1, and produced in the mammalian Chinese Hamster Ovary cells. The drug portion is DM1, which is a maytansine derivative that inhibits microtubules. These two portions are covalently connected by 4-[N-maleimidomethyl] cyclohexane-1-carboxylate (MCC), which is a stable thioether linker. Together MCC and DM1 are called emtansine and are produced by chemical synthesis.
Thrombomodulin Alfa | DrugBank Online Thrombomodulin Alfa is a novel, recombinant and soluble thrombomodulin (ART-123). It is a human protein with both thrombin inhibiting and protein C stimulating activities, for the potential treatment of thromboembolism and blood clotting disorders, such as disseminated intravascular thromboembolism. 5 Investigated for use/treatment in blood preservative, blood (blood forming organ disorders, unspecified), sepsis and septicemia, and thrombosis. Thrombomodulin (TM) alfa, a recombinant human soluble TM, enhances activation of pro-carboxypeptidase B2 (pro-CPB2) by thrombin. Activated pro-CPB2 (CPB2) exerts anti-inflammatory and anti-fibrinolytic activities. Thrombomodulin alfa is a soluble form of recombinant human thrombomodulin comprising all extracellular domains of thrombomodulin. Bound to thrombin, Thrombomodulin alfa inhibits its procoagulant activity and promotes activation of protein C. Thrombomodulin alfa inhibits thrombin generation by the activation of protein C and the subsequent inactivation of factor Va in the presence of protein S. Thrombomodulin alfa attenuates the extension of the clot by inhibiting further thrombin generation on clots, while other anticoagulants inhibit the initiation of clot formation. A higher concentration of Thrombomodulin alfa is needed to affect clotting time and platelet aggregation than thrombin generation.  rapidly eliminated through liver 2–3 days after sc injection;
GPI-1485 | DrugBank Online GPI 1485 is a product candidate that belongs to a class of small molecule compounds called neuroimmunophilin ligands.
In preclinical experiments, neuroimmunophilin ligands have been shown to repair and regenerate damaged nerves without affecting normal, healthy nerves.
Ketoprofen | DrugBank Online Ketoprofen, a propionic acid derivative, is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAIA) with analgesic and antipyretic properties. For symptomatic treatment of acute and chronic rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, primary dysmenorrhea and mild to moderate pain associated with musculotendinous trauma (sprains and strains), postoperative (including dental surgery) or postpartum pain. Ketoprofen is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAIA) with analgesic and antipyretic properties. Ketoprofen has pharmacologic actions similar to those of other prototypical NSAIDs, which inhibit prostaglandin synthesis. Ketoprofen is used to treat rheumatoid arthritis, osteoarthritis, dysmenorrhea, and alleviate moderate pain. The anti-inflammatory effects of ketoprofen are believed to be due to inhibition cylooxygenase-2 (COX-2), an enzyme involved in prostaglandin synthesis via the arachidonic acid pathway. This results in decreased levels of prostaglandins that mediate pain, fever and inflammation. Ketoprofen is a non-specific cyclooxygenase inhibitor and inhibition of COX-1 is thought to confer some of its side effects, such as GI upset and ulceration. Ketoprofen is thought to have anti-bradykinin activity, as well as lysosomal membrane-stabilizing action. Antipyretic effects may be due to action on the hypothalamus, resulting in an increased peripheral blood flow, vasodilation, and subsequent heat dissipation.  Ketoprofen is rapidly and well-absorbed orally, with peak plasma levels occurring within 0.5 to 2 hours. 99% bound, primarily to albumin Rapidly and extensively metabolized in the liver, primarily via conjugation to glucuronic acid. No active metabolites have been identified.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners In a 24 hour period, approximately 80% of an administered dose of ketoprofen is excreted in the urine, primarily as the glucuronide metabolite. Conventional capsules: 1.1-4 hours
Extended release capsules: 5.4 hours due to delayed absorption (intrinsic clearance is same as conventional capsules) Extended release capsules: 5.4 hours due to delayed absorption (intrinsic clearance is same as conventional capsules) LD50=62.4 mg/kg (rat, oral).
Symptoms of overdose include drowsiness, vomiting and abdominal pain.
LU-31130 | DrugBank Online LU-31130 is a rapid acting therapy developed by H. Lundbeck A/S to treat Psychosis, Schizophrenia and Schizoaffective Disorders. It acts at the Dopamine D4 receptors in the cortex and has low affinity for D2 receptors, adrenoceptors, muscarinic and histaminergic receptors.
PPI-1019 | DrugBank Online Apan (PPI-1019) is developed by Praecis Pharmaceuticals to treat Alzheimer's Disease. Investigated for use/treatment in alzheimer's disease. PPI-1019 (Apan) inhibits the aggregation of
beta-amyloid and its associated nerve cell toxicity. In addition, Apan reaches the brain in quantities that are sufficient to
block the aggregation of beta-amyloid molecules and alter the course of the disease.  Accumulation of beta-amyloid in the brain is often thought of as a defect in the
Doxorubicin | DrugBank Online Doxorubicin is a cytotoxic anthracycline antibiotic isolated from cultures of Streptomyces peucetius var. caesius. Doxorubicin binds to nucleic acids, presumably by specific intercalation of the planar anthracycline nucleus with the DNA double helix. Doxorubicin is used to produce regression in disseminated neoplastic conditions like acute lymphoblastic leukemia, acute myeloblastic leukemia, Wilms’ tumor, neuroblastoma, soft tissue and bone sarcomas, breast carcinoma, ovarian carcinoma, transitional cell bladder carcinoma, thyroid carcinoma, gastric carcinoma, Hodgkin’s disease, malignant lymphoma and bronchogenic carcinoma in which the small cell histologic type is the most responsive compared to other cell types. Doxorubicin is also indicated for use as a component of adjuvant therapy in women with evidence of axillary lymph node involvement following resection of primary breast cancer. Doxorubicin is an antineoplastic in the anthracycline class. General properties of drugs in this class include: interaction with DNA in a variety of different ways including intercalation (squeezing between the base pairs), DNA strand breakage and inhibition with the enzyme topoisomerase II. Most of these compounds have been isolated from natural sources and antibiotics. However, they lack the specificity of the antimicrobial antibiotics and thus produce significant toxicity. The anthracyclines are among the most important antitumor drugs available. Doxorubicin is widely used for the treatment of several solid tumors while daunorubicin and idarubicin are used exclusively for the treatment of leukemia. Doxorubicin may also inhibit polymerase activity, affect regulation of gene expression, and produce free radical damage to DNA. Doxorubicin possesses an antitumor effect against a wide spectrum of tumors, either grafted or spontaneous. The anthracyclines are cell cycle-nonspecific. Doxorubicin has antimitotic and cytotoxic activity through a number of proposed mechanisms of action: Doxorubicin forms complexes with DNA by intercalation between base pairs, and it inhibits topoisomerase II activity by stabilizing the DNA-topoisomerase II complex, preventing the religation portion of the ligation-religation reaction that topoisomerase II catalyzes. The distributive half-life is 5 minutes, which suggests that doxorubicin is rapidly taken up by tissue.
Raxibacumab | DrugBank Online Raxibacumab is a human IgG1λ monoclonal antibody that binds the protective antigen (PA) component of B. anthracis toxin. Raxibacumab has a molecular weight of approximately 146 kilodaltons. Raxibacumab is produced by recombinant DNA technology in a murine cell expression system. FDA approved on December 14, 2012. Raxibacumab is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with inhalational anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis in combination with appropriate antibacterial drugs, and for prophylaxis of inhalational anthrax when alternative therapies are not available or are not appropriate.  Raxibacumab is a monoclonal antibody that binds free PA with an affinity equilibrium dissociation constant (Kd) of 2.78 ± 0.9 nM. Raxibacumab inhibits the binding of PA to its cellular receptors, preventing the intracellular entry of the anthrax lethal factor and edema factor, the enzymatic toxin components responsible for the pathogenic effects of anthrax toxin. It does not have direct antibacterial activity.  Raxibacumab does not cross the blood-brain-barrier. When a single IV dose of 40 mg/kg was administered to healthy, male and female human subjects, the pharmacokinetic parameters are as follows:
Cmax = 1020.3 ± 140.6 mcg/mL;
AUCinf = 15845.8 ± 4333.5 mcg·day/mL.
Bioavailability is also dependent on site of injection. When administered to the vastus lateralis, the bioavailability is 71-85%. When administered to the gluteus maximus, the bioavailability is 50-54%.  Steady state volume of distribution exceeded plasma volume. This suggests that there is some distribution into the tissues.  Mean terminal elimination half-lives of raxibacumab are as follows:
IM dose = 15-19 days;
Seletracetam | DrugBank Online Seletracetam is a pyrrolidone derivative and with a structural similarity to newer generation antiepileptic drug levetiracetam. It binds to the same target as levetiracetam but with higher affinity and has shown potent seizure suppression in models of acquired and genetic epilepsy with high CNS tolerability. It is predicted to have low drug-drug interactions and inhibition or induction of any major human metabolizing enzymes. Seletracetam was in Phase II clinical trials under the supervision of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated as treatment of epilepsy and partial epilepsy however its development had been put on hold in July 2007. As of 2010, its production was further halted due to the investigation of a newer antiepileptic agent, brivaracetam. Investigated for use/treatment in epilepsy. Seletracetam is an antiepileptic agent that targets the presynaptic mechanisms of epilepsy. It interferes with synaptic vesicle exocytosis and neurotransmitter release by binding to synaptic vesicle protein 2A (SV2A) which is involved in synaptic vesicle docking and fusion. It is also a N-type calcium channel blocker that inhibits the abnormal neuronal discharge by inhibiting the calcium channel function and associated calcium currents. Seletracetam markedly reduces epileptiform markers of both hyper-excitability and hyper-synchronization in an in vitro slice model of epilepsy and potently suppresses seizures in in vivo epilepsy models mimicking both partial and generalized epilepsy [A19305].  Seletracetam binds to SV2A in a stereospecific and selective manner. SV2A is a membrane glycoprotein present in synaptic vesicles of neurons that plays a role as calcium regulators in neurotransmitter release and modulate synaptic networks. Seletracetam is thought to reduce excessive neuronal activity by modulating SV2A function and restoring the ability of a neuron to regulate its neurotransmitter release.
Inotuzumab ozogamicin | DrugBank Online Inotuzumab ozogamicin is an antibody-drug conjugate using linker and cytotoxic drug technology similar to that developed for the ground-breaking treatment Mylotarg (Gemtuzumab ozogamicin), which was approved by the US FDA in 2000 for the treatment of acute myeloid leukaemia. Inotuzumab ozogamicin consists of a recombinant humanised IgG4 kappa CD22-targeting monoclonal antibody covalently attached to calicheamicin derivative, N-acetyl-gamma-calicheamicin dimethylhydrazide, which is a potent DNA-binding cytotoxic agent 4. Developed by Pfizer and UCB, inotuzumab ozogamicin was granted approval by EU in June 2017 followed by FDA on August 17th, 2017 for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL). ALL is a rapidly progressing cancer of the bone marrow that is associated with high mortality rates and low therapeutic response from standard chemotherapies in relasping conditions. In a randomized trial, inotuzumab ozogamicin displayed higher percentages of patients undergoing longer periods of complete remission with no evidence of disease in comparison to patients receiving alternative chemotherapy 5. Indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of adults with relapsed or refractory CD22-positive B cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL).  Inotuzumab ozogamicin is an antineoplastic agent that targets CD22 antigen expressed on immature B-cell lymphocytes and blocks further growth of tumor cells. The drug aims to restore normal blood counts and achieve complete remission from the disease. QT interval prolongation was observed in patients receiving inotuzumab ozogamicin.  Inotuzumab ozogamicin is comprised of cytotoxic antibiotic N-acetyl-gamma-calicheamicin dimethylhydrazide attached to a humanized monoclonal IgG4 antibody via 4-(4 acetylphenoxy) butanoic acid (acetyl butyrate) linker. The drug exerts a potent cytotoxic effect against CD22+ B-cell lymphoma when the antibody binds to the CD22 receptor on the surface of B cells . The drug-CD22 complex is rapidly internalized into the cell, forming an endosome which subsequently fuses with lysosomes. N-acetyl-gamma-calicheamicin dimethylhydrazide is then intracellularly released into the acidic environment. N-acetyl-gamma-calicheamicin dimethylhydrazide is a calicheamicin derivative, which is naturally produced by the bacterium Micromonospora echinospora, and is toxic to the body when not bound to the antibody. It mediates apoptosis of the cell by binding to the minor groove of DNA in a sequence-specific manner and undergoing a structural change to generate diradicals [A20354]. These changes abstract hydrogen ions from the phosphodiester bonds of double-stranded DNA, resulting in breaks and cell apoptosis 1,2,4.  Inotuzumab ozogamicin is intended to be administered in cycles that each run for 3 to 4 weeks. The steady state exposure of the drug is reached by Cycle 4. The mean (SD) maximum serum concentration (Cmax) of inotuzumab ozogamicin was 308 ng/mL (362) with patients receving the recommended dose of 1.8 mg/m^2/cycle 6.  The total volume of distribution of inotuzumab ozogamicin is approximately 12L 6.  In vitro studies show the binding of the N-acetyl-gamma-calicheamicin dimethylhydrazide to human plasma proteins to be approximately 97% 6.  N-acetyl-gamma-calicheamicin dimethylhydrazide primarily undergoes nonenzymatic reduction in vitro. The metabolism of N-acetyl-gamma-calicheamicin dimethylhydrazide in human serum is not clearly understood as the level of the drug is below the limit of quantification of 50 pg/mL 6. The antibody portion of the drug is thought to undergo proteolytic degradation into amino acids then recycled into other proteins 3.  The drug is disposited in the body after administration.  The elimination half life at the end of Cycle 4 of administration is approximately 12.3 days in a 2-compartment model 6.  The clearance of inotuzumab ozogamicin at steady state is 0.0333 L/h 6.  Inotuzumab ozogamicin was shown to be clastogenic in vivo in the bone marrow of male mice but was not mutagenic in an* in vitro* bacterial reverse mutation (Ames) assay. In rat toxicity studies, rats developed oval cell hyperplasia, altered hepatocellular foci, and hepatocellular adenomas however the carcinogenic potential of inotuzumab ozogamicin on humans is undetermined. Based on reproductive toxicity studies involving female rats and non-clinical studies, inotuzumab ozogamicin has the potential to impair reproductive function and
Propofol | DrugBank Online Propofol is an intravenous anaesthetic agent used for induction and maintenance of general anaesthesia. IV administration of propfol is used to induce unconsciousness after which anaesthesia may be maintained using a combination of medications. Recovery from propofol-induced anaesthesia is generally rapid and associated with less frequent side effects (e.g. drowsiness, nausea, vomiting) than with thiopental, methohexital, and etomidate. Propofol may be used prior to diagnostic procedures requiring anaesthesia, in the management of refractory status epilepticus, and for induction and/or maintenance of anaesthesia prior to and during surgeries. Used for induction and/or maintenance of anaesthesia and for management of refractory status epilepticus.  Propofol is a sedative-hypnotic agent for use in the induction and maintenance of anesthesia or sedation. Intravenous injection of a therapeutic dose of propofol produces hypnosis rapidly with minimal excitation, usually within 40 seconds from the start of an injection (the time for one arm-brain circulation). The action of propofol involves a positive modulation of the inhibitory function of the neurotransmitter gama-aminobutyric acid (GABA) through GABA-A receptors. Rapid - time to onset of unconsciousness is 15-30 seconds, due to rapid distribution from plasma to the CNS. Distribution is so rapid that peak plasma concentrations cannot be readily measured. Duration of action is 5-10 minutes.  95 to 99%, primarily to serum albumin and hemoglobin Hepatically metabolized mainly by glucuronidation at the C1-hydroxyl. Hydroxylation of the benzene ring to 4-hydroxypropofol may also occur via CYP2B6 and 2C9 with subsequent conjugation to sulfuric and/or glucuronic acid. Hydroxypropofol has approximately 1/3 of hypnotic activity of propofol.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners It is chiefly eliminated by hepatic conjugation to inactive metabolites which are excreted by the kidney. Initial distribution phase t1/2α=1.8-9.5 minutes. Second redistirubtion phase t1/2β=21-70 minutes. Terminal elimination phase t1/2γ=1.5-31 hours.  Overdosage may increase pharmacologic and adverse effects or cause death.
Dermatophagoides farinae | DrugBank Online Dermatophagoides farinae extracts are sterile solutions used for intradermal testing or subcutaneous immunotherapy. This combination is approved for as a year-round, once-a-day tablet that's dissolved under the tongue as a treatment for dust mite allergies. Dermatophagoides farinae extract is an allergen extract indicated as immunotherapy for house dust mite (HDM)-induced allergic rhinitis, with or without conjunctivitis, confirmed by in vitro testing for IgE antibodies to Dermatophagoidesfarinae house dust  mites, or skin testing to licensed house dust mite allergen extracts. ODACTRA is approved for use in adults 18 through 65 years of age Treatment with ACTAIR has been shown to induce a systemic antibody response towards house dust mite allergens, with an increase in specific IgG4 antibodies in some patients. These immunoglobulins may compete with IgE for allergen binding, thereby decreasing allergen capture and presentation. The complete mechanisms of allergen immunotherapy are not clear and remain the subject of investigation. The allergic reaction is dependent on the presence of allergen-specific immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies that are bound to specific receptors on mast cells and basophils. The presence of IgE antibodies sensitizes these cells, and upon interaction with the appropriate allergens, histamine and other mediators are released which produce local or systemic responses in sensitive individuals, and characteristic symptoms of atopic diseases, such as allergic rhinitis and allergic asthma. Changes in serum antibody and T-lymphocyte responses resulting from immunotherapy have been demonstrated, and these changes often correlate closely with clinical (symptom) improvements. Specific mechanisms may vary depending on the nature of the allergic disease, the allergenic specificities of patients and populations, extract formulations, route of administration, dose and duration of treatment.
RUS 3108 | DrugBank Online RUS 3108 is being developed for the treatment of atherosclerosis, the major cause of cardiovascular disorders such as heart attacks and stroke by Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories.
GPI-0100 | DrugBank Online GPI-0100 is Avantogen’s lead adjuvanat-immunopotentiator, a key component of vaccines for boosting the immune response.
Binimetinib | DrugBank Online Binimetinib, also known as Mektovi, is a potent is a potent and selective oral mitogen-activated protein kinase 1/2 (MEK 1/2) inhibitor which is combined with Encorafenib 4,8. On June 27, 2018, the Food and Drug Administration approved the combination of Encorafenib and binimetinib (BRAFTOVI and MEKTOVI, from Array BioPharma Inc.) in combination for patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with the BRAF V600E or V600K mutations, as detected by an FDA-approved test 8. On June 27, 2018, the Food and Drug Administration approved encorafenib and binimetinib in combination patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAF V600E or V600K mutation, as detected by an FDA-approved test 8. Binimetinib is a MEK inhibitor. MEK is an enzyme that regulates the biosynthesis of the inflammatory cytokines TNF, IL-6 and IL-1. MEK inhibitors interfere with these biosynthetic processes 7. It is a chemotherapeutic agent that has anti-tumor activity 10, 1. Binimetinib, noncompetitive with ATP, binds to and inhibits the activity of MEK1/2. The inhibition of MEK1/2 prevents the activation of MEK1/2-dependent effector proteins and transcription factors. This process can result in the inhibition of growth factor-mediated cell signaling. This may lead to the inhibition of tumor cell proliferation and an inhibition in the production of various inflammatory cytokines including interleukin-1, -6 and tumor necrosis factor. MEK1/2 are themselves threonine and tyrosine kinases that possess a dual specificity. They subsequently contribute critically to the activation of the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway and are typically upregulated in a number of different tumor cell types 7. Following oral administration in a pharmacokinetic study, at least 50% of the binimetinib dose was absorbed with a median time to maximum concentration (Tmax) of 1.6 hours Label. The administration of a single dose of MEKTOVI 45 mg with a high-fat, high-calorie meal (consisting of approximately 150 calories from protein, 350 calories from carbohydrate, and 500 calories from fat) in healthy subjects had no effect on binimetinib exposure Label. The geometric mean (CV%) of apparent volume of distribution of binimetinib is 92 L (45%) Label Binimetinib is 97% bound to human plasma proteins and the blood-to-plasma ratio is 0.72 Label The primary metabolic pathway is glucuronidation with UGT1A1 contributing up to 61% of the binimetinib metabolism. Other pathways of binimetinib metabolism include N-dealkylation, amide hydrolysis, and loss of ethane-diol from the side chain. The active metabolite M3 produced by CYP1A2 and CYP2C19 represents 8.6% of the binimetinib exposure. Following a single oral dose of 45 mg radiolabeled binimetinib, approximately 60% of the circulating radioactivity AUC in plasma was attributable to binimetinib Label. Following a single oral dose of 45 mg radiolabeled binimetinib in healthy subjects, 62% (32% unchanged) of the administered dose was recovered in the feces while 31% (6.5% unchanged) was recovered in the urine Label. The mean (CV%) terminal half-life (t1/2) of binimetinib is 3.5 hours (28.5%) Label. 20.2 L/h (24%) Label The most common (≥25%) adverse reactions in patients receiving the combination of this drug with Encorafenib were fatigue, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and arthralgia. Discontinuation of therapy due to adverse reactions occurred in 5% of patients receiving the combination; the most common reasons were hemorrhage and headache 8. Due to the variety of adverse events associated with this drug, adverse events are categorized by system 12: Systemic events: Fatigue (31%) 12 Musculoskeletal system: Rhabdomyolysis 12 Ophthalmic events: Retinal hemorrhage, retinal detachment (6%), macular edema, serous retinopathy (20%) 12 Circulatory system: Hypertension, thromboembolic events such as DVT, resulting in pulmonary embolism (5.6%), peripheral
Tecovirimat | DrugBank Online The World Health Organization declared smallpox, a contagious and sometimes fatal infectious disease, eradicated in 1980. However, there have been longstanding concerns that smallpox may be used as a bioweapon 7. Also known as ST-246, Tecovirimat is the first approved drug for smallpox 8, 7. Tecovirimat has been studied for the treatment of smallpox, monkeypox, orthopoxvirus, and orthopoxviral Disease. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved tecovirimat (as TPOXX) on July 13, 2018 for the treatment of smallpox 7. Tecovirimat is indicated for the treatment of smallpox infection. It can be administered in children and adults with a minimum body weight of 13 kg Label. Tecovirimat is an inhibitor of the Orthopoxvirus VP37 envelope wrapping protein Label. Tecovirimat prevents viral spread throughout the body 9.
This drug inhibits its molecular target, a protein called p37, from interacting with intracellular transport components necessary for the production of enveloped virus, and therefore the spread of virus 9. Tecovirimat inhibits the production of extracellular viral forms, which are responsible for the systemic spread of infection, inhibiting virus-induced cytopathic effects. Tecovirimat does not inhibit the formation of intracellular forms of the virus (IMV); however, by inhibiting envelopment, and therefore preventing the exit of viral particles from an infected cell, the smallpox infection is slowed to a point where the immune system can eliminate the virus 9. Tecovirimat has shown a high level of selectivity and specificity for orthopoxviruses. Tecovirimat targets the viral p37 protein, a highly conserved protein with no homologs outside of the Orthopoxvirus genus, inhibiting its function that is necessary for required for the viral envelopment of IMV (intracellular mature virus). Tecovirimat interferes with the cellular localization of p37 viral protein and prevents its association with cellular proteins involved in membrane trafficking 9. Readily absorbed following oral administration, with mean times to maximum concentration from 3 to 4 h 3.
Eteplirsen | DrugBank Online Eteplirsen is a phosphoramidite morpholino sequence complementary to a portion of exon 51. 1 It exerts it's mechanism of action by forcing the exclusion of exon 51 from the mature DMD mRNA. 1 Eteplirsen is indicated for treatment of certain individuals with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Its use is limited to those with a confirmed mutation of the DMD gene which would benefit from exon 51 skipping. Based on clinical studies showing increased dystrophin production in skeletal muscle in some patients given this drug, the above indication was approved under accelerated approval. Further confirmatory trials are required to demonstrate clinical benefit of eteplirsen. The defining characteristic of DMD is lack of dystrophin, which is a protein that plays a vital role in maintaining muscle cell membrane integrity. (2) This is caused by a mutation in the DMD gene which leads to disruption of the translational reading frame, and ultimately in a non-functional protein. (2) Eteplirsen, is a targeted oligonucleotide that causes exon skipping of exon 51 and restores the translational reading frame. (2) The expected result is production of an internally deleted but functional dystrophin protein. (2)
Three clinical studies were done to evaluate eteplirsen. All patients in studies had a confirmed mutation of the DMD gene susceptible to exon 51 skipping.
All patients treated with the drug produced messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) coding for an internally truncated dystrophin protein.
Cariprazine | DrugBank Online Cariprazine is an antipsychotic drug developed by Gedeon Richter and marketed by Actavis under the trade name Vraylar. Cariprazine acts as a D2 and D3 receptor partial agonist, with high selectivity towards the D3 receptor. This mechanism is relatively unique, since many other antipsychotics are D2 and 5-HT2A agonists. Cariprazine was approved by the FDA in September 2015 and is indicated in the treatment of schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. Action on the dopaminergic systems makes it also potentially useful as an add-on therapy in major depressive disorder. Cariprazine is an atypical antipsychotic indicated for the treatment of schizophrenia and for the acute treatment of manic or mixed episodes associated with bipolar I
disorder. Cariprazine acts as a partial agonist at the dopamine D3 and D2 receptors with high binding affinity. Cariprazine acts as an antagonist at 5-HT2B and 5-HT2A receptors with high and moderate binding affinity as well as it binds to the histamine H1 receptors. Cariprazine shows lower binding affinity to the serotonin 5­ HT2C and α1A- adrenergic receptors and has no appreciable affinity for cholinergic muscarinic receptors. The mechanism of action of cariprazine in schizophrenia and bipolar I disorder is unknown. However, the efficacy of cariprazine could be mediated through a combination of partial agonist activity at central dopamine D2 and serotonin 5-HT1A receptors and antagonist activity at serotonin 5-HT2A receptors. Cariprazine forms two major metabolites, desmethyl cariprazine (DCAR) and didesmethyl cariprazine (DDCAR), that have in vitro receptor binding profiles similar to the parent drug. Cariprazine and its metabolites are highly protein bound (91-97%). Cariprazine is extensively metabolized by hydroxylation and demethylation. It is primarily metabolized by CYP3A4, and CYP2D6 to a lesser extent to active metabolites desmethyl cariprazine (DCAR) and didesmethyl cariprazine (DDCAR). DCAR is then further metabolized to DDCAR by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6, and DDCAR is then metabolized by CYP3A4 to a hydroxylated metabolite. Both DCAR and DDCAR display similar functions and are as pharmacologically potent as the parent drug.  Urine (21% of dose) ~1 week for the combined drug.  Accidental acute overdosage (48 mg/day) was reported in one patient. This patient experienced orthostasis and sedation. The patient fully recovered the same day.
Favipiravir | DrugBank Online Discovered by Toyama Chemical Co., Ltd. in Japan, favipiravir is a modified pyrazine analog that was initially approved for therapeutic use in resistant cases of influenza.7,9 The antiviral targets RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) enzymes, which are necessary for the transcription and replication of viral genomes.7,12,13 Not only does favipiravir inhibit replication of influenza A and B, but the drug has shown promise in the treatment of avian influenza, and may be an alternative option for influenza strains that are resistant to neuramidase inhibitors.9,19 Favipiravir has been investigated for the treatment of life-threatening pathogens such as Ebola virus, Lassa virus, and now COVID-19.10,14,15 In 2014, favipiravir was approved in Japan to treat cases of influenza that were unresponsive to conventional treatment.9 Given its efficacy at targetting several strains of influenza, it has been investigated in other countries to treat novel viruses including Ebola and most recently, COVID-19.7,10,17 Favipiravir functions as a prodrug and undergoes ribosylation and phosphorylation intracellularly to become the active favipiravir-RTP.7,10 Favipiravir-RTP binds to and inhibits RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), which ultimately prevents viral transcription and replication.7,8 The mechanism of action of favipiravir is novel compared to existing influenza antivirals that primarily prevent entry and exit of the virus from cells.7 The active favipiravir-RTP selectively inhibits RNA polymerase and prevents replication of the viral genome.18 There are several hypotheses as to how favipiravir-RTP interacts with RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp).7 Some studies have shown that when favipiravir-RTP is incorporated into a nascent RNA strand, it prevents RNA strand elongation and viral proliferation.7 Studies have also found that the presence of purine analogs can reduce favipiravir’s antiviral activity, suggesting competition between favipiravir-RTP and purine nucleosides for RdRp binding.7 Although favipiravir was originally developed to treat influenza, the RdRp catalytic domain (favipiravir's primary target), is expected to be similar for other RNA viruses.7 This conserved RdRp catalytic domain contributes to favipiravir's broad-spectrum coverage.7 The bioavailability of favipiravir is almost complete at 97.6%.18 The mean Cmax for the recommended dosing schedule of favipiravir is 51.5 ug/mL.18 Studies comparing the pharmacokinetic effects of multiple doses of favipiravir in healthy American and Japanese subjects are below:  Japanese subjects First Dose:
Cmax = 36.24 ug/mL
tmax = 0.5 hr
AUC = 91.40 ugxhr/mL American subjects First Dose:
Cmax = 22.01 ug/mL
tmax = 0.5 hr
AUC = 44.11 ugxhr/mL Japanese Subjects Final Dose:
Cmax = 36.23 ug/mL
Tmax = 0.5 hr
AUC = 215.05 ugxhr/mL American Subjects Final Dose:
Cmax = 23.94 ug/mL
Tmax = 0.6 hr
TB-402 | DrugBank Online TB-402 is a human antibody binding to Factor VIII, which plays a crucial role in the coagulation of the blood. It is expected to be developed as a potential treatment to prevent blood clot formation in connection with certain types of heart arrhythmia, such as atrial fibrillation. Investigated for use/treatment in atrial fibrillation and thrombosis. TB-402 is a human antibody binding to Factor VIII, which plays a crucial role in the coagulation of the blood. The antibody has shown a beneficial partial inhibition of Factor VIII,
DTS-201 | DrugBank Online DTS-201 is a prodrug of doxorubicin, a widely used anti-cancer drug that Diatos intends to develop for the treatment of various solid tumors. It is activated in the tumor environment.
PX-478 | DrugBank Online PX-478 is a small molecule inhibitor of hypoxia inducible factor (HIF)-1 alpha currently in a clinical trial in patients with advanced metastatic cancer and lymphoma. PX-478 was effective in models of both non-small cell lung cancer
and small cell lung cancer that express HIF-1 alpha. Investigated for use/treatment in cancer/tumors (unspecified). PX-478 is a novel small molecule compound that inhibits the activity of hypoxia inducible factor (HIF)-1 alpha, a transcription factor that controls the expression of a number of genes important for growth and survival of cancer cells. Genes regulated by HIF-1 alpha contribute to diverse functions including new blood vessel growth (angiogenesis), use of glucose for energy, and protection against apoptosis (programmed cell death). Preclinical data have demonstrated that PX-478 can induce apoptosis in experimental tumor models, as well as the down-regulation of factors which
Evofosfamide | DrugBank Online TH-302 is a novel cancer therapeutic specifically activated under the low oxygen or "hypoxic" conditions typical of solid tumor cancer cells. TH-302 is a nitroimidazole-linked prodrug of a brominated derivative of an isophosphoramide mustard previously used in cancer drugs such as ifosfamide, cyclophosphamide, and glufosfamide. TH-302 has been shown, in preclinical studies, to be both efficacious and well tolerated. Investigated for use/treatment in solid tumors. TH-302 combines a 2-nitroimidazole oxygen-sensing trigger with a masked DNA crosslinker. Upon activation in oxygen
VX-148 | DrugBank Online VX-148 is a second-generation, orally administered inhibitor of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH). The IMPDH enzyme plays a key role in regulating immune response and proliferation of specific cell types, including lymphocytes. VX-148 is a developed for the treatment of autoimmune diseases. Investigated for use/treatment in autoimmune diseases, psoriasis and psoriatic disorders, and viral infection. VX-148 is a potent inhibitor of inosine monophosphate dehydrogenase (IMPDH), a cellular enzyme that is essential for production of guanine nucleotides, one of the building blocks of RNA and DNA.
Blocking IMPDH may be an effective strategy for blocking the
Spiramycin | DrugBank Online Spiramycin is a primarily bacteriostatic macrolide antimicrobial agent with activity against Gram-positive cocci and rods, Gram-negative cocci and also Legionellae, mycoplasmas, chlamydiae, some types of spirochetes, Toxoplasma gondii and Cryptosporidium.
Spiramycin is a 16-membered ring macrolide discovered in 1952 as a product of Streptomyces ambofaciens that has been available in oral formulations since 1955, and parenteral formulations since 1987. Resistant organisms include Enterobacteria, pseudomonads, and moulds. Macrolide antibiotic for treatment of various infections. The absolute bioavailability of oral spiramycin is generally within the range of 30 to 40%. After a 1 g oral dose, the maximum serum drug concentration was found to be within the range 0.4 to 1.4 mg/L. The mechanism of action of macrolides has been a matter of controversy for some time. Spiramycin, a 16-membered macrolide, inhibits translocation by binding to bacterial 50S ribosomal subunits with an apparent 1 : 1 stoichiometry. This antibiotic is a potent inhibitor of the binding to the ribosome of both donor and acceptor substrates. The primary mechanism of action is done by stimulation of dissociation of peptidyl-tRNA from ribosomes during translocation.I  The extent of absorption of Spiramycin was shown to be incomplete. Oral bioavailability ranges from 30-39%.
Spiramycin has slower rate of absorption than Erythromycin. It has a high pKa (7.9) which could be a result of high degree of ionization in acidic medium of the stomach. The tissue distribution of spiramycin is extensive. The volume of distribution is in excess of 300 L, and concentrations achieved in bone, muscle, respiratory tract and saliva exceed those found in serum. Spiramycin showed high concentrations in tissues such as: lungs, bronchi, tonsils, and sinuses.  Low level of protein binding (10-25%). Spiramycin is less metabolised than some of the other macrolides. Metabolism has not been well studied. It is mainly done in the liver to the active metabolites. Fecal-biliary route is the primary route of elimination. The secondary route is renal-urinary route. Intravenous:
Young persons (18 to 32 years of age): Approximately 4.5 to 6.2 hours.
Elderly persons (73 to 85 years of age): Approximately 9.8 to 13.5 hours.  Oral: 5.5-8 hours, Rectal in children: 8 hours 80% of the administered dose excreted in the bile, which makes the fecal-biliary route is the most important route of elimination.
Enterohepatic recycling could also occur.
Only 4 to 14% of an administered dose is eliminated through renal-urinary excretion route. Cardiac toxicity, specifically QT prolongation (irregular heartbeat; recurrent fainting).
Cholestatic hepatitis (abdominal pain; nausea; vomiting; yellow eyes or skin).
Gastrointestinal toxicity, specifically acute colitis (abdominal pain and tenderness; bloody stools; fever).
Intestinal injury (abdominal pain and tenderness).
Nylidrin | DrugBank Online Nylidrin, also known as buphenine belongs to the category of drugs called vasodilators, which relax blood vessels and increase blood flow. Nylidrin is a peripheral vasodilator. Some studies show the evidence of improving cognitive impairment in selected individuals, such as geriatric patients with mild to moderate symptoms of cognitive, emotional and physical impairment 4. Nylidrin is utilized to treat several disorders that may benefit from increased blood flow (for example, certain mental disorders, blood vessel disease due to diabetes, frostbite, night leg cramps, and certain types of ulcers). This medication works by dilating (widening) blood vessels to help increase blood flow (improving circulation) throughout the body, including the extremities and central nervous system. This effect may help to improve memory/judgment, improve walking ability, and support the healing of frostbite/ulcers 6. FDA has considered nylidrin as "lacking substantial evidence of effectiveness" in cerebral ischemia, cerebral arteriosclerosis, and other cerebral circulatory insufficiencies. Therefore, the FDA has withdrawn nylidrin from the U.S. market 9. Nylidrin is mainly indicated in conditions like arteriosclerosis, cerebrovascular disease, peripheral vascular disease, Raynaud's disease, thrombo-angitis obliterans, and thrombophlebitis 8. It may sometimes be used in the treatment of peripheral vascular disorders in addition premature labor (however, the drug is not approved for premature labor)2. Nylidrin hydrochloride acts mainly by beta-receptor stimulation 1, 15. Beta stimulation with nylidrin has been studied and confirmed in a variety of isolated tissues from rabbits, guinea pigs, as well as dogs. This drug has been shown to dilate arterioles in skeletal muscle and to increase cardiac output in the anesthetized dog and cat as well as the unanesthetized man. An increase in cerebral blood flow and a decrease in vascular resistance has also been reported. The result of this combination of mechanisms is an improved blood supply to ischemic tissues, with minimal change in blood pressure (generally) 16.  Nylidrin causes peripheral vasodilation, a positive inotropic effect, and an increased volume of gastric acid. 2, 4. According to one study, there are two primary effects of this agent following the intra‐arterial route of administration: one, to decrease total peripheral resistance; and two, a direct effect on the heart tissue to increase cardiac output 15. It also acts directly on the arteries and arterioles of the skeletal muscles. Additionally, it suppresses uterine contractility thereby preventing or halting premature labor 11. This drug is classified as a beta receptor agonist 7.The β2-adrenergic receptor belongs to the widely expressed 7-transmembrane receptors superfamily, which signals through heterotrimeric G-proteins. They are frequently referred to as G-protein-coupled receptors because they accomplish signal transduction to the interior of the cell by interactions with guanine nucleotide regulatory binding proteins. The receptor-coupled G-proteins work as “molecular switches” which alternate from an inactive guanosine-diphosphate to an active guanosine-triphosphate (GTP) state, which then act to modulate all downstream cell processes. Signaling by various hormones and neurotransmitters, as well as photons and odors, follows the same general pathway, (i.e., by binding of an extracellular ligand to the receptor, which then interacts with the membrane-bound G-protein). This complex, often referred to as the ternary complex, then acts through the activated G-protein to regulate an effector, such as adenylyl cyclase, phospholipase C, or ion channels 14.  The main effects of Nylidrin may be divided into 3 categories: Blood vessels Vascular smooth muscle has β2-adrenoceptors that have a high binding affinity for circulating epinephrine and a lower affinity to norepinephrine released by sympathetic adrenergic nerves 16. When nylidrin binds to the beta-adrenergic receptors, it prevents the binding of epinephrine, leading to decreased blood vessel contractility as epinephrine is unable to bind 18. Heart: Increased intracellular cAMP by beta-2-agonists inhibits myosin light chain kinase, leading to relaxation
These receptors, like the receptors in the heart, are coupled to a Gs-protein, which acts stimulate the formation of cAMP. Although increased cAMP increases cardiac myocyte contraction, in vascular smooth muscle, an increase in cAMP causes smooth muscle relaxation. The reason for this is the fact that cAMP inhibits myosin light chain kinase that is responsible for phosphorylating smooth muscle myosin. Increases in intracellular cAMP caused by β2-agonists inhibit myosin light chain kinase thereby producing less contractile force (i.e., promoting relaxation) 16. Other tissues Activation of β2-adrenoceptors in the lungs causes bronchodilation. β2-adrenoceptor activation leads to hepatic glycogenolysis and the pancreatic secretion of glucagon, increasing plasma glucose concentrations. β1-adrenoceptor stimulation in the kidneys promotes the release of renin, stimulating the production of angiotensin II and the subsequent release of aldosterone by the adrenal cortex 16. Readily absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract 4. Duration of action is 10h 9. Adverse effects of oral sympathomimetics, such as Nylidrin, are common. The most frequent effects are hypertension, palpitations, nausea, anxiety, mydriasis, and restlessness/agitation 9. Large overdoses and severe toxicity may lead to seizures, hallucinations, agitated delirium, and tachydysrhythmias including
Ruxolitinib | DrugBank Online Ruxolitinib is a janus-associated kinase inhibitor indicated to treat bone marrow cancer, specifically intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis. FDA approved on November 16, 2011. Treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis, including primary myelofibrosis, post-polycythemia vera (post-PV) myelofibrosis and post-essential thrombocythemia (post-ET) myelofibrosis. [Lexicomp] Myeolofibrosis is the proliferation of abnormal bone marrow stem cells which cause fibrosis (the excessive formation of connective tissue). The mean half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) for JAK 1 and JAK 2 are 2.8 nmol/L and 3.3 nmol/L respectively. After administration of ruxolitinib, a decrease in levels of phosphorylated STAT (marker for JAK activity) in a dose-dependent manner can be observed. Pharmacodynamic resistance has not been observed.  Ruxolitinib is a kinase inhibitor that is selective for the Janus Associated Kinases (JAK) 1 and 2. These kinases are responsible for the mediation of cytokine and growth factor signalling which in turn effect immune function and hematopoiesis. The signalling process involves signal transducers and transcription activators (STAT) which modulate gene expression. Patients with myelofibrosis have abnormal JAK1 and JAK2 activity thus ruxolitinib works to regulate this.  Absorption is rapid and is not affected by food.
Cmax, 15 mg, healthy subject = 649 nmol/L;
Tmax, 15 mg, healthy subject = 1.5 hours;
Glycerol phenylbutyrate | DrugBank Online Glycerol phenylbutyrate is a nitrogen-binding agent. Chemically, it is a triglyceride in which three molecules of phenylbutyrate are linked to a glycerol backbone. FDA approved on February 1, 2013. Glycerol phenylbutyrate is a nitrogen-binding agent for the chronic management of adult and pediatric patients ≥2 years of age with urea cycle disorders (UCDs) who cannot be managed by dietary protein restriction and/or amino acid supplementation alone.  Glycerol phenylbutyrate prolongs the QTc interval.  The toxic accumulation of ammonia in the blood and brain arise from urea cycle disorders in which patients are deficient in critical enzymes or transporters that are involved in the synthesis of urea from ammonia. Glycerol phenylbutyrate is a prodrug - the major metabolite, phenylacetate (PAA) is the molecule that binds to nitrogen. PAA conjugates with glutamine (which contains 2 molecules of nitrogen) via acetylation in the liver and kidneys to form phenylacetylglutamine (PAGN), which is excreted by the kidneys. PAGN, like urea, contains 2 moles of nitrogen and provides an alternate vehicle for waste nitrogen excretion.  Glycerol phenylbutyrate is a prodrug in which phenylbutyrate (PBA) is released from the glycerol backbone by lipases in the gastrointestinal tract. PBA then undergoes beta-oxidtion to form PAA. When a single oral dose of 2.9 mL/m2 of Glycerol phenylbutyrate is given to fasting adult subjects, the pharmacokinetic parameters are as follows:
Tmax: PBA = 2 hours; PAA = 4 hours; PAGN = 4 hours.
Cmax: PBA = 37.0 µg/mL; PAA = 14.9 µg/mL; PAGN = 30.2 µg/mL.
In healthy subjects, the hydrolysis of glycerol phenylbutyrate is incomplete, but to what extent is unknown.
When glycerol phenylbutyrate is given to adult UCD patients, maximum plasma concentrations at steady state (Cmaxss) of PBA, PAA, and PAGN occurred at 8 h, 12 h, and 10 h, respectively, after the first dose in the day. Intact glycerol phenylbutyrate was not detectable in plasma in UCD patients. PBA = 80.6% to 98.0%;
PAA = 37.1% to 65.6%;
Romidepsin | DrugBank Online Romidepsin is a selective inhibitor of histone deacetylase, approved in the US in 2009 for the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) or/and peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) in patients who have received at least one prior systemic therapy. These indications are based on response rate. Clinical benefit such as improvement in overall survival has not been demonstrated. For the treatment of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma (CTCL) or/and peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) in patients who have received at least one prior systemic therapy. These indications are based on response rate. Clinical benefit such as improvement in overall survival has not been demonstrated.  Romidepsin is a prodrug, where it becomes active once taken up into the cell. The active metabolite has a free thiol group, which interacts with zinc ions in the active site of class 1 and 2 HDAC enzymes, resulting in inhibition of its enzymatic activity. Certain tumors have over expressed HDACs and downregulated/mutated histone acetyltransferases. This imbalance of HDAC relative to histone acetyltransferase can lead to a decrease in regulatory genes, ensuing tumorigenesis. Inhibition of HDAC may restore normal gene expression in cancer cells and result in cell cycle arrest and apoptosis.  Romidepsin exhibited linear pharmacokinetics at standard doses.  44.5L Highly protein bound in plasma (92%-94%) Romidepsin undergoes extensive hepatic metabolism in vitro primarily by CYP3A4 with minor contribution from CYP3A5, CYP1A1, CYP2B6 and CYP2C19.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Approximately 3 hours 8.4L/h Risk factor D in pregnancy. It is not known if romidepsin is excreted in breast milk. Due to the potential for serious adverse reactions in the nursing infant, the manufacturer recommends a decision be made whether to discontinue nursing or to discontinue the drug, taking into account the importance of treatment to the mother.
Pixantrone | DrugBank Online Pixantrone is an aza-anthracenedione and DNA intercalator which inhibits topoisomerase II. It is similar in structure to anthracyclines such as mitoxantrone, but exerts fewer toxic effects on cardiac tissue. [2] The lower cardio-toxic effects of pixantrone may be explained, in part, by its redox inactivity [3]. Pixantrone does not bind iron and promotes the formation of reactive oxygen species to a lesser degree than other anthracyclines. It also inhibits doxorubicinol formation in human myocardium. [3] As a result, it is believed to be less cardiotoxic while still exerting efficacy.  Pixantrone was designed to treat relapsed or refractory aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma(NHL) in patients who have failed two prior lines of therapy. [2] For patients suffering from NHL, first line therapies consist of anthracycline containing multi-drug treatments which unfortunately are known to cause irreversible myocardial tissue damage. Patients refractory to treatment, or those who relapse, are discouraged from further anthracycline use due to cumulative cardiotoxicity. Pixantrone dimaleate, administered intravenously, was designed by Cell Therapeutics Incorporated as an alternative second line therapy in refractory or relapsed NHL. It is currently being tested in Phase III trials. [2] Although pixantrone has not yet received FDA approval in the United States, it has been granted conditional marketing approval by the European Union. Conditional approval was granted by the European Medicines Agency after a phase III EXTEND trial of patients with NHL showed that pixantrone was tolerable and that it resulted in significantly higher complete response rate and progression free survival in comparison to other single chemotherapy agents. However, it is notable that the EXTEND trial was stopped early, leaving the statistical significance of the results in question. Based on this uncertainty, in 2009, the FDA ultimately rejected Cell Therapeutic's initial application for accelerated approval for pixantrone use in relapsed or refractory NHL. Another phase III trial, PIX-R, is now ongoing to clarify pixantrones place in therapy. It will compare pixantrone efficacy to that of gemcitabine. [2] Currently in Phase III investigation for treatment of relapsed or refractory aggressive non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in patients who have failed two prior lines of therapy. Presently, no standard therapy exists for patients with relapsed or refractory NHL. [2] After first line therapy has been initiated, most patients have received their lifetime limit of doxorubicin and further use of anthracyclines may potentially lead to anthracycline-induced congestive heart failure (CHF). Pixantrone is an attractive alternative as a second line agent, due to its lack of cardiac toxicity. [2]  The phase III trial, PIX-R, is ongoing and will compare pixantrone multidrug therapy with an equivalent regimen in patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (the most common type of NHL). Previous study results have also suggested the possibility that pixantrone may be safe and effective in doxorubicin naive patients. In myocardial strips which are doxorubicin naive, pixantrone is taken up to a higher degree than in myocardial strips which are doxorubicin exposed, and once absorbed exhibits redox inactivity. [3]  Pixantrone dimaleate has also been investigated as a treatment for acute myelogenous leukemia, diffuse large B-cell lymphoma, follicular lymphoma, metastatic breast cancer, low grade small lymphocytic lymphomas and general metastatic cancers.  Pixantrone has a wide range of antitumor activity, especially in terms of treating leukemias and lymphomas [3].  Pixantrone lacks cardio-toxic effects. It has postulated that his is because of its redox inactivity and lack and inhibition of doxorubicinol formation in human myocardium. [3]  Pixantrone is an aza-anthracenedione which acts as a DNA intercalator. By intercalating between DNA, with modest affinity, it stimulates DNA cleavage by topoisomerase II. (Pixantrone acts as a poison to topoisomerase II by stabilizing protein-DNA complexes which are usually transient, giving rise to double stranded DNA breaks.)
Rufinamide | DrugBank Online Rufinamide is a triazole derivative and an anticonvulsant medication to treat seizure disorders like Lennox-Gastuat syndrome, a form of childhood epilepsy. Clinical trials suggest its efficacy in the treatment of partial seizures. Adjunct therapy for treatment of seizures associated with Lennox-Gastaut syndrome.  At high concentrations will inhibit action of mGluR5 subtype receptors thus preventing the production of glutamate.  Rufinamide is a triazole derivative antiepileptic that prolongs the inactive state of voltage gated sodium channels thus stabilizing membranes, ultimately blocking the spread of partial seizure activity. The oral suspension and tablet are bioequivalent on a mg per mg basis. Rufinamide is well absorbed but the rate is slow and the extent of absorption decreases as dose is increases. Based on urinary excretion, the extent of absorption was at least 85% following oral administration of a single dose of 600 mg rufinamide tablet under fed conditions.
Bioavailability= 70%-85% (decreases with increasing doses);
Tmax, fed and fasted states= 4-6 hours;
Cmax, 10 mg/kg/day= 4.01 µL/mL;
Cmax, 30mg/kg/day= 8.68 µL/mL;
AUC (0h-12h), 10mg/kg/day= 37.8±47 µg·h/mL;
AUC (0h-12h), 30mg/kg/day= 89.3±59 µg·h/mL.  Rufinamide was evenly distributed between erythrocytes and plasma. The apparent volume of distribution is dependent upon dose and varies with body surface area. The apparent volume of distribution was about 50 L at 3200 mg/day.
Lasofoxifene | DrugBank Online Lasofoxifene is a non-steroidal 3rd generation selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM) that selectively binds to both ERα and ERβ with high affinity. It is a naphthalene derivative marketed for prevention and treatment of osteoporosis and for the treatment of vaginal atrophy. It was initially developed as Oporia by Pfizer as a treatment for postmenopausal osteoporosis and vaginal atrophy, in which were both rejected for approval by FDA. Later Fablyn was developed as a result of a research collaboration between Pfizer and Ligand Pharmaceuticals with a newly submitted New Drug Application in 2008. It gained approval by European Commission in March 2009. Ligand Pharmaceuticals signed a license agreement with Sermonix Pharmaceuticals for the development and commercialization of oral lasofoxifene in the USA. Investigated for use/treatment in postmenopausal osteoporosis to reduce the risk of both vertebral and novertebral fractures, as well as address other postmenopausal conditions, including reduction in risk of breast cancer and treatment of vulvar and vaginal atrophy (VVA) Lasofoxifene exhibits both significant estrogenic and antiestrogenic activity both in vitro and in vivo, targeting any tissues that possess ERs, such as bone, uterus, breast, blood vessels, and liver. Binding assays demonstrated high affinity of the compound for both ERα and ERβ in a tissue-dependent manner. It mimics the effects of estradiol with varying agonist and antagonist effects.  Lasofoxifene mediates an agonist effect on estrogen receptors expressed on bone to mimic the positive effects of estrogen to reduce the production and lifespan of osteoclasts via altering the NF-kappaB ligand (RANKL)/RANK/osteoprotegerin system, stimulation of osteoblast (the bone forming cells) activity and additional effects on calcium homeostasis 4. It acts as an antagonist at uterus and mammary glands 8 by suppressing the estrogen signaling in oncogenic pathways and inhibits the downstream gene transcription 9.
Alogliptin | DrugBank Online Alogliptin is a selective, orally-bioavailable inhibitor of enzymatic activity of dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4). Chemically, alogliptin is prepared as a benzoate salt and exists predominantly as the R-enantiomer (>99%). It undergoes little or no chiral conversion in vivo to the (S)-enantiomer. FDA approved January 25, 2013. Indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus.  Peak inhibition of DPP-4 occurs within 2-3 hours after a single-dose administration to healthy subjects. The peak inhibition of DPP-4 exceeded 93% across doses of 12.5 mg to 800 mg. Inhibition of DPP-4 remained above 80% at 24 hours for doses greater than or equal to 25 mg. Alogliptin also demonstrated decreases in postprandial glucagon while increasing postprandial active GLP-1 levels compared to placebo over an 8-hour period following a standardized meal. Alogliptin does not affect the QTc interval.  Alogliptin inhibits dipeptidyl peptidase 4 (DPP-4), which normally degrades the incretins glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide (GIP) and glucagon like peptide 1 ( GLP-1). The inhibition of DPP-4 increases the amount of active plasma incretins which helps with glycemic control. GIP and GLP-1 stimulate glucose dependent secretion of insulin in pancreatic beta cells. GLP-1 has the additional effects of suppressing glucose dependent glucagon secretion, inducing satiety, reducing food intake, and reducing gastric emptying. The pharmacokinetics of NESINA was also shown to be similar in healthy subjects and in patients with type 2 diabetes. When single, oral doses up to 800 mg in healthy subjects and type 2 diabetes patients are given, the peak plasma alogliptin concentration (median Tmax) occurred 1 to 2 hours after dosing. Accumulation of aloglipin is minimal. The absolute bioavailability of NESINA is approximately 100%. Food does not affect the absorption of alogliptin.  Following a single, 12.5 mg intravenous infusion of alogliptin to healthy subjects, the volume of distribution during the terminal phase was 417 L, indicating that the drug is well distributed into tissues. Alogliptin is 20% bound to plasma proteins. Alogliptin does not undergo extensive metabolism. Two minor metabolites that were detected are N-demethylated alogliptin (<1% of parent compound) and N-acetylated alogliptin (<6% of parent compound). The N-demethylated metabolite is active and an inhibitor of DPP-4. The N-acetylated metabolite is inactive. Cytochrome enzymes that are involved with the metabolism of alogliptin are CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 but the extent to which this occurs is minimal. Approximately 10-20% of the dose is hepatically metabolized by cytochrome enzymes.  Renal excretion (76%) and feces (13%). 60% to 71% of the dose is excreted as unchanged drug in the urine. Terminal half-life = 21 hours  Renal clearance = 9.6 L/h (this value indicates some active renal tubular secretion);
Tapentadol | DrugBank Online Opioid analgesic for treatment of moderate to severe pain. FDA approved on Nov 20, 2008. The immediate-release formulation of tapentadol is indicated for the relief of moderate to severe acute pain. The long-acting formulation serves as a continuous, around-the-clock analgesic that is indicated for the relief of moderate to severe chronic pain or neuropathic pain associated with diabetic peripheral neuropathy.  Tapentadol is a centrally-acting synthetic analgesic that is 18 times less potent than morphine in binding mu-opioid receptors. It also increases norepinephrine concentrations in the brains of rats via inhibition of norepinephrine reuptake. Selective mu-opioid antagonists like naloxone can block analgesia from tapentadol. It also has not effect on the QT interval.  Tapendadol causes large increases in levels of extracellular norepinephrine (NE) due to a dual mechanism of action involving mu opioid receptor (MOR) agonism as well as noradrenaline reuptake inhibition. Bioavailability, immediate release (IR), 86 mg: 32%;
Bioavailability, extended release (ER), 86 mg: 32%;
Cmax, IR: 64.2 ng/mL;
Cmax, ER: 22.5 ng/mL;
T max, IR: 1.5 hours;
T max, ER: 5.0 hours;
Tapentadol accumulates following multiple repeat doses.  Following IV administration, volume of distribution is 540 ± 98 L.  ~20%  97% of the dose is metabolized mostly via conjugation with glucuronic acid to produce glucuronides. Tapentadol is also metabolized into N-desmethyl tapentadol (13%) by CYP2C9 and CYP 2C19. CYP2D6 is involved in the formation of the metabolite, hydroxy tapentadol (2%). All metabolites are inactive.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Tapentadol and its metabolites are excreted almost exclusively (99%) via the kidneys. Approximately 70% (55% O-glucuronide and 15% sulfate of tapentadol) is excreted in conjugated form. A total of 3% of drug was excreted in urine as unchanged drug.  Elimination half-life, IV: 4 hours.  Total clearance = 1530 ± 177 ml/min.  Oral, rabbit: LD50 = 3200 mg/kg;
Oral, mouse: LD50 = 300 mg/kg;
Oral, rat: LD50: 980 mg/kg;
Silodosin | DrugBank Online Silodosin is an α1-adrenoceptor antagonist that is selective for the prostate. Silodosin is for symptomatic treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia. FDA approved Oct 9, 2008. Treatment for symptomatic relief of benign prostatic hyperplasia  Silodosin is 583 times more selective for human alpha-1A receptors than alpha-1B receptors. It is also 56 times more selective for human alpha-1A receptors than alpha-1D. Silodosin does not prolong the QT interval.  Benign prostate hyperplasia (BPH), or an enlarged prostate, is a condition found only in men and is characterized by a non-cancerous enlargement of the prostate gland. Symptoms of BPH include urinary difficulty, urinary frequency and an inability to complete bladder emptying. Silodosin is highly uroselective for the alpha (1A) receptors located in the prostate, [urethrea and bladder trigone in the lower urinary tract]. Blocking these receptors relaxes the smooth muscles, resulting in an improvement in urine flow and a reduction in BPH symptoms. The selective binding of silodosin to the alpha (1A) receptors is substantially greater than the binding to the cardiovascular-associated alpha (1B) receptors and thereby maximizes target organ activity while minimizing the potential for blood pressure effects. [Watson Pharmaceutical Inc. Press release] Silodosin is alpha 1A-adrenoceptor selective antagonist which inhibits sympathetic nerve stimulation and relaxation of smooth muscle tone in the lower urinary tract which relieves the pressure from contraction of smooth muscle. The reduction of intraurethral pressure improves voiding and storage issues associated with BPH.  Quickly absorbed and has a bioavailability of 32% at 8mg/day (therapeutic dose).
When 8 mg of silodosin is taken once daily with food, the pharmacokinetic parameters are as follows:
Cmax = 61.6 ± 27.54 ng/mL;
Tmax = 2.6 ± 0.90 hours;
AUC (0h-24h) = 373 ng•hr/ml.
The AUC of its metabolite, KMD3213G, is four times greater than silodosin.  49.5 L  97% bound to protein  Extensively metabolized in the liver. The main metabolite is generated via glucuronidation (KMD-3213G) by UDP-2B7. Oxidation by alcohol and aldehyde dehydrogenases produces the second major metabolite, KMD-3293. KMD-3213G accumulates in the plasma as it is very hydrophilic. KMD-3213G is also an active metabolite in which it has 50% of silodosin's inhibitory activity. KMD-3293 is inactive. Cytochrome P450 CYP 3A4 also generates some metabolites.  Fecal (54.9%);
Renal (33.5%)  Silodosin = 13.3 ± 8.07 hours;
Eltrombopag | DrugBank Online Eltrombopag is used to treat low blood platelet counts in adults with chronic immune (idiopathic) thrombocytopenia (ITP), when certain other medicines, or surgery to remove the spleen, have not worked well enough. ITP is a condition that may cause unusual bruising or bleeding due to an abnormally low number of platelets in the blood. Eltrombopag has also been recently approved (late 2012) for the treatment of thrombocytopenia (low blood platelet counts) in patients with chronic hepatitis C to allow them to initiate and maintain interferon-based therapy. Thrombopoietin receptor agonists are pharmaceutical agents that stimulate platelet production in the bone marrow. In this, they differ from the previously discussed agents that act by attempting to curtail platelet destruction.  Eltrombopag is an orally bioavailable, small-molecule TPO-receptor agonist that interacts with the transmembrane domain of the human TPO-receptor. Eltrombopag is a stimulator of STAT and JAK phosphorylation. Unlike recombinant TPO or romiplostim, Eltrombopag does not activate the AKT pathway in any way. It should be noted that when given to patients with aplastic anemia, other lineages besides platelet count were increased, suggesting that either eltrombopag enhanced the effect of TPO in vivo; or there is a yet uncovered mechanism of action at work.  Peak absorption of Eltrombopag occurs around 2-6 hours following oral administration, and the total oral absorption of drug-related material following a 75 mg dose was estimated to be at least 52%.  Based on a radiolabel study, the concentration of eltrombopag in blood cells is approximately 50% to 79% of plasma concentrations.  Eltrombopag is highly protein bound (>99%). Eltrombopag is predominantly through pathways including cleavage, oxidation, and conjugation with glucuronic acid, glutathione, or cysteine. In vitro studies suggest that CYP1A2 and CYP2C8 are responsible for the oxidative metabolism of eltrombopag. UGT1A1 and UGT1A3 are responsible for the glucuronidation of eltrombopag. Eltrombopag is eliminated primarily via the feces (59%), along with 31% being renally excreted.  About 21-32 hours in healthy patients.
Doripenem | DrugBank Online Doripenem is a broad-spectrum, carbapenem antibiotic marketed under the brand name Doribax by Janssen. Doripenem injection was approved by the FDA in 2007 to treat complicated urinary tract and intra-abdominal infections. In a clinical trial of doripenem treatment in ventilator associated pneumonia (vs. imipenem and cilastatin), it was found that doripenem carried an increased risk of death and lower clinical cure rates, resulting in a premature termination of the trial. The FDA revised the doripenem label in 2014 to include a warning against use in ventilator-associated pneumonia and to reiterate its safety and efficacy for its approved indications. Doripenem is indicated in the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections and complicated urinary tract infections, including pyelonephritis, caused by designated susceptible bacteria. Similar to other beta-lactam antimicrobial agents, the time that unbound plasma concentration of doripenem exceeds the MIC (T>MIC) of the infecting organism has been shown to best correlate with efficacy in animal models of infection. Doripenem is a broad-spectrum carbapenem antibiotic with activity against many gram-positive and gram-negative aerobic bacteria, as well as a variety of anaerobes. Like other beta-lactam antibiotics, doripenem's bactericidal mechanism of action is mostly due to cell death after inhibition of bacterial enzymes called penicillin-bindng proteins (PBPs), which are responsible for peptidoglycan cross-linking during the synthesis of the bacterial cell wall. Carbapenems mainly have high affinity for PBPs 1a, 1b, 2 and 3. Inhibition of each PBP usually results in a different inactivating mechanism. Inhibition of PBPs 1a and 1b results in fast bacterial killing through the formation of spheroplasts, inhibition of PBP 2 results in rod-shaped bacteria to become spherical, and inhibition of PBP 3 results in filamentous-shaped organisms. The PBPs preferentially bound by different carbapenems depend on the organism. In E.coli and P.aeruginosa, doripenem binds to PBP
Tolvaptan | DrugBank Online Tolvaptan is used to treat low blood sodium levels (hyponatremia) associated with various conditions like congestive heart failure, cirrhosis, and syndrome of inappropriate antidiuretic hormones (SIADH). FDA approved on May 19, 2009. Treatment of symptomatic and resistant to fluid restriction euvolemic or hypervolemic hyponatremia associated with congestive heart failure, SIADH, and cirrhosis.  Urine volume and fluid intake increase in a dose dependent manner which results in overall negative fluid balance in patients taking tolvaptan. Increases in serum sodium and osmolality can be observed 4-8 hours post-administration and is maintained for 24 hours. The magnitude of serum sodium and osmolality change increases with escalating doses. Furthermore, a decrease in urine osmolality and increase in free water clearance can be observed 4 hours after post-administration of tolvaptan. The affinity for V2 receptors is 29x greater than that of V1a receptors and does not have any appreciable affinity for V2 receptors.  Tolvaptan is a selective and competitive arginine vasopressin receptor 2 antagonist. Vasopressin acts on the V2 receptors found in the walls of the vasculature and luminal membranes of renal collecting ducts. By blocking V2 receptors in the renal collecting ducts, aquaporins do not insert themselves into the walls thus preventing water absorption. This action ultimately results in an increase in urine volume, decrease urine osmolality, and increase electrolyte-free water clearance to reduce intravascular volume and an increase serum sodium levels. Tolvaptan is especially useful for heart failure patients as they have higher serum levels of vasopressin.  Tmax, Healthy subjects: 2 - 4 hours;
Cmax, Healthy subjects, 30 mg: 374 ng/mL;
Cmax, Healthy subjects, 90 mg: 418 ng/mL;
Cmax, heart failure patients, 30 mg: 460 ng/mL;
Cmax, heart failure patients, 90 mg: 723 ng/mL;
AUC(0-24 hours), 60 mg: 3.71 μg·h/mL;
AUC(∞), 60 mg: 4.55 μg·h/mL;
Regadenoson | DrugBank Online Regadenoson is an A2A adenosine receptor agonist that causes coronary vasodilation and used for myocardial perfusion imagining. Manufactured by Astellas and FDA approved April 10, 2008. Diagnostic agent for radionuclide myocardial perfusion imaging (MPI)  Regadenoson rapidly increases coronary blood flow (CBF) which is sustained for a short duration. Mean average peak velocity increased to greater than twice baseline by 30 seconds and decreased to less than twice the baseline level within 10 minutes. Myocardial uptake of the radiopharmaceutical is proportional to (CBF). Regadenoson increases blood flow in normal coronary arteries but not in stenotic (blocked) arteries. The significance of this finding is that stenotic arteries will take up less of the radiopharmaceutical than normal coronary arteries, resulting in a signal that is less intense in these areas.  Regadenoson is an selective low-affinity (Ki= 1.3 µM) A2A receptor agonist that mimics the effects of adenosine in causing coronary vasodilatation and increasing myocardial blood flow. It is a very weak agonist of the A1 adenosine receptor (Ki > 16.5 µM). Furthermore, it has negligible affinity to A2B and A3 adenosine receptors. Regadenoson is undergoing trials for use in pharmacological stress tests. Adenosine slows conduction time through the A-V node, can interrupt the reentry pathways through the A-V node, and can restore normal sinus rhythm in patients with paroxysmal supraventricular tachycardia (PSVT), including PSVT associated with Wolff-Parkinson-White Syndrome. The pharmacokinetic profile of regadenoson is best described by a 3-compartment model.
T max, injection = 1 to 3 minutes;
Onset of pharmacodynamic response = 1 to 3 minutes;
E max 12.3 ng/mL  Central compartment: 11.5 L;
Steady state: 78.7 L  The metabolism of regadenoson is unknown in humans. The cytochrome P450 enzyme system is not likely to be involved with the metabolism of regadenoson.  58% of total regadenoson eliminate is via renal excretion  Initial phase: 2-4 minutes;
Intermediate phase: 30 minutes (this phase coincides with a loss of the pharmacodynamic effect);
Terminal phase: 2 hours  Average plasma renal clearance = 450 mL/min. As this value is larger than the glomerular filtration rate, this suggests occurrence of renal tubular secretion.  The most common (incidence ≥ 5%) adverse reactions to regadenoson are dyspnea, headache, flushing, chest discomfort, dizziness, angina pectoris, chest pain, and nausea.
MTD (male, supine position): 20 µg/kg;
Ferumoxytol | DrugBank Online Ferumoxytol is an intravenously administered iron preparation indicated in the EU and the US for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia in adult patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) 4. It is comprised of superparamagnetic iron oxide nanoparticles which are coated by a semi-synthetic carbohydrate shell in an isotonic, neutral pH solution that may be administered at relatively high dose by rapid intravenous injection 8. This drug is indicated for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia in adult patients who have experienced intolerance to oral iron or have experienced an unsatisfactory response to oral iron or
who have chronic kidney disease (CKD) Label. The pharmacodynamic effect of ferumoxytol on hematologic indexes such as Hgb (hemoglobin), serum ferritin, and TSAT (transferrin saturation) were studied and measured as primary and secondary endpoints in clinical efficacy studies 14.  Feraheme (ferumoxytol) reached the primary endpoint with statistical significance (p<0.001) in all three trials versus oral iron 14. Ferumoxytol has been examined as a contrast agent for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) studies. Because ferumoxytol is a very small superparamagnetic iron oxide (USPIO) with a polysaccharide coating, it may be administered via the intravenous bolus route without mast cell degranulation, which is an attributable property for magnetic resonance angiography and perfusion imaging. Unlike gadolinium, ferumoxytol crosses the blood-brain barrier at a slow pace and is considered a 'blood pool' agent. Ferumoxytol stays in the intravascular space and offers a longer time period for data acquisition during an MRI study so that data can be repeatedly obtained over a period of several minutes to hours with only small losses of intravascular signal intensity and minimal soft tissue enhancement 17. Iron-containing proteins and enzymes are important in oxidation-reduction reactions, particularly those in the mitochondria. Iron is a part of myoglobin and several heme-enzymes, including the cytochromes, catalase, and peroxidase. Iron is an essential component of the metalloflavoprotein enzymes and the mitochondrial enzyme alpha-glycerophosphate oxidase. In addition, iron is a cofactor for enzymes such as aconitase and tryptophan pyrrolase. Iron deficiency cause anemia and decreased oxygen delivery. This also reduces the metabolism of muscle and decreases mitochondrial activity. Iron deficiency may also cause defects in both learning or thermoregulation. Therefore, iron is important to several metabolic functions in addition to erythropoiesis 17. Feraheme (ferumoxytol) is comprised of a superparamagnetic iron oxide that is coated with a carbohydrate shell, aiding in the isolation the bioactive iron from plasma components until the iron-carbohydrate complex enters the reticuloendothelial system macrophages of the liver, spleen and the bone marrow 17.  The iron is then released from the iron-carbohydrate complex within vesicles located in the macrophages. Iron then either enters the intracellular storage of iron (e.g., ferritin) or can be transferred to plasma transferrin for its transport to erythroid precursor cells for incorporation into hemoglobin Label. A therapeutic response to iron therapy depends upon the individual's iron stores and ability to utilize the iron. The systemic use of iron is influenced by the cause of the deficiency in addition to the illnesses/conditions that may affect erythropoiesis. Iron therapy by itself does not increase red blood cell (RBC) production. Administration of iron improves only the anemia associated with iron deficiency 17. Iron-containing proteins and enzymes are essential in oxidation-reduction reactions, particularly those in the mitochondria. Iron is a part of myoglobin and various heme-enzymes, including the cytochromes, catalase, and peroxidase. Iron is an important component of the metalloflavoprotein _enzymes as well as the mitochondrial enzyme _alpha-glycerophosphate oxidase. In addition, iron serves as a cofactor for enzymes such as aconitase _and tryptophan _pyrrolase. Iron deficiency leads anemia and decreased oxygen delivery, but also reduces muscle metabolism and decreases mitochondrial activity 17.  Iron deficiency may also lead to defects in both learning and body thermoregulation. Therefore, iron is imperative to several metabolic functions in addition to erythropoiesis 17. After intravenous administration, ferumoxytol replaces iron stores with less frequent side effects compared to the use of oral iron therapy. In addition, this agent generates T1 relaxation, producing a magnetic field and enhancing T2 relaxation, thereby darkening contrast media-containing structures in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). Due to small particle size, ferumoxytol remains in the intravascular space for a prolonged period and so may be used as a blood pool agent 9.  T1 and T2, in radiology, refer to the timing of radiofrequency pulse sequences used to make images. The timing used to create T1 images results in images which emphasize fat tissue. The timing of radiofrequency pulse sequences utilized to create T2 images results in images which emphasize fat AND water within the body 16. Bioavailability studies were not conducted as ferumoxytol has been developed for IV administration only 7. Iron therapy dosage is individualized according to specific goals for blood iron concentrations, iron storage parameters (e.g., ferritin, transferrin saturation), and serum hemoglobin concentrations. Iron toxicity is possible with excessive or unnecessary iron therapy. Systemic iron is stored in ferritin and hemosiderin, which are utilized for future production of hemoglobin. The absorption of iron depends on the route of administration. The tissue that first clears parenterally ingested iron from the plasma determines its bioavailability. If the reticuloendothelial system clears iron effectively, only small amounts will become available over time to the bone marrow. Transferrin accepts iron from the intestinal tract and also from sites of hemoglobin storage and destruction 17. The population mean estimates for volume of distribution of the central compartment (V(1)), maximum elimination rate (V(max)), and ferumoxytol concentration at which rate of metabolism would be one-half of V(max) (K(m)) were 2.71 l, 14.3 mg/hr, and 77.5 mg/L, respectively 9. Ferumoxytol metabolism is not dependent on renal function. It is removed from the circulation by the reticuloendothelial system of the liver, spleen, and bone marrow 13. Iron, bound to transferrin, is then transported in the plasma and distributed to the bone marrow for the synthesis of hemoglobin, to the reticuloendothelial system for storage, and to all cells for enzymes containing iron, and to placental cells if needed to meet fetal needs. Transferrin eventually becomes available for recycling. In normal adults, 90% of metabolized iron is conserved and reutilized repeatedly 17. Iron can either become a component of intracellular ferritin or be transferred to erythroid precursor cells 12. The pharmacokinetic (PK) behavior of Feraheme has been studied in healthy subjects and in patients with stage 5D of chronic kidney disease, on hemodialysis 9. Feraheme showed dose-dependent, capacity-limited elimination from the plasma with a half-life of approximately 15 hours in humans 9. Since there is no renal clearance, ferumoxytol is safe in renal failure patients 11.
One study estimated the clearance to be 0.0221 L/h 7. Hypersensitivity The FDA has
Feraheme (ferumoxytol) may cause serious hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylaxis and/or anaphylactoid reactions. Serious hypersensitivity reactions were reported in 0.2% (3/1,726) of subjects administered Feraheme. Some other reactions potentially associated with hypersensitivity (e.g., pruritus, rash, urticaria or wheezing) were reported in 3.7% (63/1,726) of these subjects. It is necessary to monitor patients for signs and symptoms of hypersensitivity for at least 30 minutes following Feraheme injection and limit administration of the drug only to when personnel and therapies are readily available for the treatment of hypersensitivity reactions Label.  Ferumoxytol was not tested for carcinogenic effects. In general genotoxicity tests, ferumoxytol showed no evidence of mutagenic activity in an in vitro Ames test or clastogenic activity in either an in vitro chromosomal aberration assay or an in vivo micronucleus assay. No adverse effects on fertility were observed in animal studies. Ferumoxytol had no effect on male or female fertility or general reproductive function in rats Label. Hypotension Feraheme may cause significant hypotension.
Asenapine | DrugBank Online Developed by Schering-Plough after its merger with Organon International, asenapine is a sublingually administered, atypical antipsychotic for treatment of schizophrenia and acute mania associated with bipolar disorder. Asenapine also belongs to the dibenzo-oxepino pyrrole class. It is also for severe post-traumatic stress disorder nightmares in soldiers as an off-label use. FDA approved on August 13, 2009. Used for treatment in psychosis, schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorders, manic disorders, and bipolar disorders as monotherapy or in combination. Asenapine is a serotonin, dopamine, noradrenaline, and histamine antagonist in which asenapine possess more potent activity with serotonin receptors than dopamine. Sedation in patients is associated with asenapine's antagonist activity at histamine receptors. Its lower incidence of extrapyramidal effects are associated with the upregulation of D1 receptors. This upregulation occurs due to asenapine's dose-dependent effects on glutamate transmission in the brain. It does not have any significant activity with muscarinic, cholinergic receptors therefore symptoms associated with anticholinergic drug activity like dry mouth or constipation are not expected to be observed. Asenapine has a higher affinity for all aforementioned receptors compared to first-generation and second-generation antipsychotics except for 5-HT1A and 5-HT1B receptors.  Asenapine is an atypical antipsychotic multireceptor neuroleptic drug which shows strong 5HT2A (serotonin) and D2 (dopamine) receptor antagonism, which has been shown to enhance dopamine (DA) and acetylcholine (Ach) efflux in rat brains. Asenapine may improve cognitive function and negative symptoms in patients with schizophrenia.  Cmax, single 5 mg dose = 4 ng/mL (within 1 hour);
Bioavailability, sublingual administration = 35%;
Bioavailability, oral administration (swallowed) = <2%;
Time to steady state, 5 mg = 3 days;
Vernakalant | DrugBank Online Vernakalant was developed by Cardiome Pharma as as an antiarrhythmic drug intended for rapid conversion of atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm. It acts as an atypical class III antiarrhythmic drug that potentiates its effect in higher heart rates. Intravenous formulation was approved in Europe in September 2010 as Brinavess and in Canada in April 2017. It is an investigational drug under regulatory review by FDA. Indicated for the rapid conversion of recent onset of atrial fibrillation to sinus rhythm in adults for non-surgery patients that lasts for less than 7 days of duration and post-cardiac surgery patients with atrial fibrillation lasting less than 3 days of duration. Vernakalant blocks currents in all phases of atrial action potential including atria-specific potassium currents (the ultra-rapid delayed rectifier and the acetylcholine dependent potassium currents) and prolongs the refractory period. It dose-dependently prolongs atrial refractoriness, prolongs AV nodal conduction and refractoriness, and slightly prolongs QRS duration without significantly affecting ventricular refractory period. Vernakalant has a high affinity to ion channels specifically involved in repolarization of atrial tissue and is thought to have a low proarrhythmic potential. Vernakalant blocks atrial voltage-gated sodium channels in a dose and frequency-dependent manner and inhibits late sodium current (INa)which confers its effect on intra-atrial conduction. This current blockade enhance and onset of drug action accelerates in higher heart rate as the affinity of vernakalant for INa also increases. Its binding offset is quick once the heart rate slows [A19198]. It also blocks Kv 1.5 channel and its early activating potassium channels (IKur) and inhibits acetylcholine-activated potassium channels (IKAch), which are specific to the atrium and cause prolongation of atrial refractoriness. Vernakalant also blocks Kv4.3 channel and its cardiac transient outward potassium current (Ito), which is involved more with atrial than ventricular refractoriness [A19203].
Lacosamide | DrugBank Online Lacosamide is a functionalized amino acid that has activity in the maximal electroshock seizure test, and is indicated for the adjunctive treatment of partial-onset seizures and diabetic neuropathic pain. Recent studies indicate that Lacosamide only affects those neurons which are depolarized or active for long periods of time, typical of neurons at the focus of an epileptic seizure, as opposed to other antiepileptic drugs such as carbamazepine or lamotrigine which slow the recovery from inactivation and reduce the ability of neurons to fire action potentials. Lacosamide is indicated for adjunctive therapy for partial onset seizures in patients with epilepsy over 17 years old. Injection is indicated for short term use when oral therapy is not feasible.  Lacosamide therapy is correlated with a decrease in seizure frequency. It should be noted that in group analyses, dosages above 400 mg/day do not appear to result in additional benefit. It is proposed that lacosamide's inhibition of sodium channels is responsible for analgesia. Lacosamide may be selective for inhibiting depolarized neurons rather than neurons with normal resting potentials. Pain and nociceptor hyperexcitability are associated with neural membrane depolarization. Lacosamide binds to collapsin response mediator protein-2 (CRMP-2), a phosphoprotein which is expressed primarily in the nervous system and is involved in neuronal differentiation and control of axonal outgrowth. The role CRMP-2 of binding in seizure control is hasn't been elucidated.  Lacosamide has a negligible first pass effect with bioavailability of about 100%. The maximum Lacosamide plasma concentrations occur about 1-4 hours after oral administration, and the pharmacokinetics of Lacosamide are dose proportional. Food does not affect absorption.  approximately 0.6 L/kg; thus close to the volume of total body water.  <15% Lacosamide is a CYP2C19 substrate. The relative contribution of other CYP isoforms or non-CYP enzymes in the metabolism of lacosamide is not known. Primary compounds excreted were unchanged lacosamide (approximately 40% of the dose), its O-desmethyl metabolite (approximately 30%), and a structurally unknown polar fraction (~20%). The plasma exposure of the major human metabolite, O-desmethyl-lacosamide, is approximately 10% of that of lacosamide. This metabolite has no known pharmacological activity. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Lacosamide is eliminated primarily from the systemic circulation by biotransformation and renal excretion.  13 Hours 95% recovered in the urine
Alicaforsen | DrugBank Online Investigated for use/treatment in crohn's disease and ulcerative colitis. Alicaforsen selectively inhibits ICAM‑1 gene expression. Over-expression of ICAM‑1 occurs in a wide variety of inflammatory disorders, including ulcerative colitis (UC), pouchitis and tissues in the eye, gastrointestinal teact, lungs and skin. UC is an inflammatory bowel disease of the colon, a part of the large intestine, and pouchitis is an inflammation of the surgically constructed internal pouch created in UC patients when their diseased colons are removed. [ISIS Pharmaceutical Website]
Nalmefene | DrugBank Online Nalmefene is a 6-methylene analogue of naltrexone and opioid system modulator but with no opioid activity Label. It mediates a partial agonist effect on kappa receptors 2. It is primarily used in the management of alcohol dependence in adult patients in conjunction with continuous psychosocial support focused on treatment adherence and reducing alcohol consumption 4 when it is exists as the hydrochloride dihydrate form under the trade name Selincro. Selincro is orally administered as tablets. Nalmefene works to reduce alcohol consumption in individuals by positive reward effect of alcohol which involves the opioid system, as well as the sedative and dysphoric properties of alcohol 2.  It is also indicated to prevent or reverse the effects of opioids, including respiratory depression, sedation, and hypotension by acting on the opioid receptor as an antagonist Label under the trade name Revex for intramuscular, intravenous and subcutaneous injection, where nalmefene hydrochloride is an active ingredient. Indicated for the reduction of alcohol consumption in adult patients with alcohol dependence who have a high drinking risk level (DRL), without physical withdrawal symptoms and who do not require immediate detoxification 4. Indicated for the complete or partial reversal of opioid drug effects, including respiratory depression - induced by either natural or synthetic opioids - or in the management of known or suspected opioid overdose Label. Nalmefene has not been shown to produce tolerance, physical dependence, or abuse potential 4,Label.  When adminsitered as an antidote for opioid overdose, nalmefene is not known to produce any respiratory depression, psychomimetic effects, or pupillary constriction Label. In the absence of opioid agonists, there was no observable pharmacological activity. Nalmefene injection can produce acute withdrawal symptoms in individuals who are opioid-dependent. Nalmefene is an opioid system modulator with a distinct μ, δ, and κ receptor profile. It acts as a selective opioid receptor ligand with antagonist activity at the μ and δ receptors and partial agonist activity at the κ receptor 4,2. Animal studies suggest that the kappa receptor signalling responses lead to antagonism of acute reward and positive reinforcement effects of drugs by decreasing dopamine in the nucleus accumbens 2. Thus it is suggested that nalmefene may be more effective treatment for alcohol dependence than Naltrexone, which is a pure mu and delta receptor antagonist 2. In vivo studies and rat studies have demonstrated that nalmefene reduces self-administration of alcohol, possibly by modulating cortico-mesolimbic functions 4.  Nalmefene, a 6-methylene analogue of naltrexone, is a competitive opioid antagonist which binds with high affinity to the mu opioid receptor. Nalmefene itself does not induce any opioid activity, but prevents or reverses the effects of opioids such as respiratory depression and sedation when injectedLabel. Some pharmacodynamic studies showed that nalmefene has a longer duration of action than naloxone at fully reversing doses Label however the relative potency of these two antagonists are reported to be similar 3.  Following a single oral administration of 18.06 mg, nalmefene is rapidly absorbed with a peak plasma concentration (Cmax) of 16.5 ng/ml with the time to reach the peak concentration (Tmax) of approxmately 1.5 hours and the exposure (AUC) of 131 ng x h/ml. Although there is little association to clinical relevance, the AUC and Cmax values are expected to increase by 30 to 50%, respectively, and the Tmax is delayed by 30 minutes after consumption of high-fat food. The absolute oral bioavailability of nalmefene is 41% 4.  Nalmefene exhibits dose-proportional pharmacokinetics following intravenous injection. The Tmax following intramuscular or subcutaneous injection is approximately 1.5-2.3 hours. In an emergency setting, however, therapeutic plasma concentrations are likely to be reached within 5-15 minutes after a 1 mg dose given intravenously where the plasma concentration is approximately 3.7 ng/mL at 5 minutes in young adult males Label.  The volume of distribution (Vd/F) of oral nalmefene is estimated to be approximately 3200 L 4. According to a PET study after single and repeated daily dosing with 18.06 mg
Avanafil | DrugBank Online Avanafil is a new phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitor that is faster acting and more selective than other drugs belonging to the same class. Chemically, it is a derivative of pyrimidine and is only available as the S-enantiomer. FDA approved on April 27, 2012. Treatment of erectile dysfunction in males.  Avanafil is a strong, competitive inhibitor of PDE5. It is also 100-times more potent for PDE5 than PDE6. The IC50 of avanafil is 5.2 nM. Compared to other PDE5 inhibitor like sildenafil and vardenafil, it is 16- and 21-fold more selective for PDE5 respectively. Avanafil does not bind to PDE6 and PDE11 to a considerable degree. The impact of this finding is that avanafil is less likely to cause side effects such as visual disturbances and myalgia. These are side effects that patients on sildenafil or tadalafil are more likely to experience. Furthermore, single oral doses of avanafil (200 mg) administered to healthy male volunteers resulted in mean changes from baseline in systolic/diastolic blood pressure of -5.3/-3.7 mmHg at 1 hour after dosing. Avanafil does not causes changes in QTc interval or ventricular repolarization.  Avanafil is a selective phosphodiesterase 5 (PDE5) enzyme inhibitor used for the treatment of erectile dysfunction caused by diabetes, age induced oxidative stress or other complications. Avanafil inhibits the cGMP specific phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) which is responsible for degradation of cGMP in the corpus cavernosum located around the penis. Penile erection during sexual stimulation is caused by increased penile blood flow resulting from the relaxation of penile arteries and corpus cavernosal smooth muscle. This response is mediated by the release of nitric oxide (NO) from nerve terminals and endothelial cells, which stimulates the synthesis of cGMP in smooth muscle cells. Cyclic GMP causes smooth muscle relaxation and increased blood flow into the corpus cavernosum. The inhibition of phosphodiesterase type 5 (PDE5) by avanafil enhances erectile function by increasing the amount of cGMP. Avanafil is rapidly absorbed and does not accumulate following multiple doses.
Tmax = 30 - 45 minutes;
Tipapkinogene sovacivec | DrugBank Online Investigated for use/treatment in cervical dysplasia/cancer, viral infection, and vulvar dysplasia and carcinoma. TG 4001 is based on the modified vaccinia virus Ankara (MVA virus) carrying and expressing HPV16 E6 and E7 genes. The MVA vector is a highly attenuated strain of vaccinia virus that combines an extensive history of safety with the ability to stimulate a strong immune response to antigens.
The TG 4001 therapeutic vaccine induces specific immunity by presentation of E6 and E7 antigens to T cells via major histocompatibility complex (MHC) class I and II inducing specific cellular and humoral responses. A second mechanism may be a non-specific activation of the immune system via the vaccinia virus and the interleukin 2 (IL2) adjuvant of the immune response. TG 4001 could have further applications beyond Cervical Intraepithelial Neoplasia (CIN) 2/3 as a single agent in low grade CIN (CIN1) or cervical cancers in combination with existing treatments.
Arzoxifene | DrugBank Online Investigated for use/treatment in breast cancer, osteoporosis, and endometrial cancer. Arzoxifene is a selective estrogen receptor modulator (SERM)
Fluasterone | DrugBank Online Has antiproliferative effects on HIV-1 and reduces HIV-1 replication. Investigated for use/treatment in psoriasis and psoriatic disorders, hyperlipidemia, metabolic disease, cancer/tumors (unspecified), and obesity. Fluasterone is a synthetically stable adrenocortical steroid fluorinated analogue of dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA), a powerful anti-inflammatory molecule with androgenic or estrogenic side effects. It is proposed that fluasterone inhibits NF-kB activation and reduces oxidative stress, but other mechanisms may play a role. Fluasterone suppresses
inflammation and is effective in preclinical models of chronic inflammatory disease including psoriasis, asthma, rheumatoid arthritis, multiple sclerosis and lupus erythematosus. Fluasterone has anti-inflammatory effects inpreclinical models of chronic
inflammatory disease including psoriasis, asthma, rheumatoid
arthritis, multiple sclerosis and lupus erythematosus.
Amrubicin | DrugBank Online Amrubicin is a third-generation synthetic anthracycline currently in development for the treatment of small cell lung cancer. Pharmion licensed the rights to Amrubicin in November 2006. In 2002, Amrubicin was approved and launched for sale in Japan based on Phase 2 efficacy data in both SCLC and NSCLC. Since January 2005, Amrubicin has been marketed by Nippon Kayaku, a Japanese pharmaceutical firm focused on oncology, which licensed Japanese marketing rights from Dainippon Sumitomo, the original developer of Amrubicin 13,15. Investigated for use/treatment in lung cancer 2. The anthracycline glycoside group of antibiotics, which includes amrubicin, represent a group of potent anticancer agents with potent activity against both solid tumors and hematological malignancies. They are the principal subjects of a large number of studies for the treatment of adult and childhood neoplastic diseases 5. Amrubicin is a 9-aminoanthracycline derivative and promotes cell growth inhibition by stabilizing protein – DNA complexes followed by double-stranded DNA breaks, which are mediated by topoisomerase-II enzyme 7. Anthracyclines have been observed to have a variety molecular effects (for example, DNA intercalation, inhibition of topoisomerase II, and stabilization of topoisomerase IIα cleavable complexes). Amrubicin shows decreased DNA intercalation when compared with doxorubicin. The decreased DNA interaction likely influences the intracellular distribution because amrubicin and its metabolite, amrubicinol. Amrubicin showed 20% distribution into the nucleus of P388 cells compared with the 80% nuclear distribution shown by doxorubicin (another anthracycline drug). The cell growth inhibitory effects of amrubicin appear to be mainly due to the inhibition of topoisomerase II 11. As an anthracycline, amrubicin has antimitotic and cytotoxic activity through a variety of mechanisms of action. Amrubicin is found to form complexes with DNA via intercalation between base pairs, and it inhibits topoisomerase II enzyme activity by stabilizing the DNA-topoisomerase II complex, which prevents the re-ligation portion of the ligation-religation reaction that topoisomerase II normally catalyzes 11. Topoisomerase II is an enzyme located in the nucleus that regulates DNA structure through double-strand breakage and re-ligation, therefore modulating DNA replication and transcription. Inhibition of the enzyme leads to inhibition of DNA replication and halt cell growth with an arrest of the cell cycle occurring at the G2/M phase. The mechanism by which amrubicin inhibits DNA topoisomerase II is believed to be through stabilization of the cleavable DNA–topo II complex, ending in re-ligation failure and DNA strand breakage 11,2.  DNA damage triggers activation of caspase-3 and -7 and cleavage of the enzyme PARP (Poly ADP ribose polymerase), leading to apoptosis and a loss of mitochondrial membrane potential. Amrubicin, like all anthracyclines, intercalates into DNA and produces reactive oxygen free radicals via interaction with NADPH, which causes cell damage 11. Compared with doxorubicin, another member of the anthracycline drug class, amrubicin binds DNA with a 7-fold lower affinity and therefore, higher concentrations of amrubicin are necessary to promote DNA unwinding 11. Peak plasma concentrations of the active metabolite amrubicinol were observed from immediately after administration of amrubicin to 1h after administration. Plasma concentrations of amrubicinol were low compared with amrubicin plasma concentrations. The plasma amrubicinol AUC (area under the curve) was approximately 10-fold lower than the amrubicin plasma AUC. Concentrations of amrubicinol were higher in RBCs as compared with plasma. Amrubicinol AUCs ranged from 2.5-fold to 57.9-fold higher in red blood cells (RBCs) compared to plasma. Because amrubicinol distributes itself into RBCs more than amrubicin, the concentrations of amrubicinol and amrubicin in RBCs were quite similar. The AUC of amrubicinol in RBCs was approximately twofold lower than the amrubicin RBC AUC 12. In one study, after repeated daily amrubicin administration, amrubicinol accumulation was observed in plasma and RBCs. On day 3, the amrubicinol plasma AUC was 1.2-fold to 6-fold higher than day 1 values; the RBC AUC was 1.2-fold to 1.7-fold higher than day 1 values. After 5 consecutive daily doses, plasma and RBC amrubicinol AUCs were 1.2-fold to 2.0-fold higher than day 1 values 12. Moderate volume of distribution (1.4 times total body water) 11. A study was performed on the plasma protein binding of amrubicin in both patients with hepatic impairment and those with normal liver function. In those with liver impairment, the plasma protein binding was found to be 91.3–97.1% and in those with normal hepatic function, 82.0–85.3% 12. The primary metabolite (amrubicinol) in rats and dogs is a product of reduction by cytoplasmic carbonyl reductase at the C-13 carbonyl group. Other enzymes participating in the metabolism of amrubicin and amrubicinol were nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate, reduced form (NADPH)–P450 reductase and nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide phosphate-quinone oxidoreductase. Twelve additional metabolites were detected in vivo and in vitro in one study 11. Peak plasma concentrations of the active metabolite amrubicinol were observed from immediately after dosing to 1 hour after dosing 11. These included four aglycone metabolites, two amrubicinol glucuronides, deaminated amrubicin, and five highly polar unknown metabolites. In vitro cell growth inhibitory activity of the minor metabolites was substantially lower than that of amrubicinol. Excretion of amrubicin and its metabolites is primarily hepatobiliary. Enterohepatic recycling was demonstrated in rats. Hover over products below to view reaction partners In one study, urinary excretion of amrubicin and amrubicinol after ingestion of amrubicin accounted for 2.7% to 19.6% of the administered dose. The amount of excreted amrubicinol was approximately 10-fold greater than excreted amrubicin 11. Excretion of amrubicin and its metabolites is primarily hepatobiliary. Enterohepatic recycling was demonstrated in rats 11. 20-30 h 6 In a study of dogs, Amrubicin plasma concentrations followed a biphasic pattern with peak concentrations observed immediately after dosing followed by α and β half-lives (t1/2) ± SD of 0.06 ± 0.01 and 2.0 ± 0.3 hours, respectively 11. The plasma pharmacokinetics of amrubicin in cancer patients are characterized by low total clearance (22% of total liver blood flow) 11. Based on acute intravenous dose toxicity studies, the lethal dose to 50% of animals was estimated to be 42 mg/kg in mice, 14 mg/kg in rats, and 4 mg/kg in dogs 11. Myelosuppression, with the primary clinical manifestation of neutropenia and leucopenia, is the dose-limiting toxicity of this drug. In addition to this, mucositis, nausea, vomiting, and alopecia are frequent. Hepatopathy, observed with elevated bilirubin concentrations, occurs less frequently. Cardiotoxicity is a major adverse effect of the anthracycline antibiotics and may be acute or chronic; in the acute setting, electrocardiographic (ECG) abnormalities may be observed, demonstrating ST-T elevations and arrhythmias, however, chronic cardiotoxicity poses a serious risk that may be lethal due to the slow development of irreversible, cardiomyopathy. The occurrence of toxicity shows a significant interindividual variation, and for this reason, the pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics of anthracyclines have been heavily investigated in order to identify models that may be used in the clinical setting to prevent the development of serious toxicity, mainly leucopenia, and maximize tumor exposure 5. Interestingly, a recent study was done to further examine genetic predisposition neutropenia/amrubicin toxicity. It was determined that C3435T polymorphisms of the ABCB1 gene might be able to predict severe amrubicin-induced neutropenia 9. Secondary alcohol metabolites of earlier generation anthracyclines have been shown to lead to cardiac toxicity which is a major toxicity of conventional anthracyclines and thus limits the amount that can be delivered safely to patients.
Sitaxentan | DrugBank Online Sitaxentan was marketed under the trade name Thelin for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) by Encysive Pharmaceuticals until Pfizer purchased Encysive in February 2008. In 2010, Pfizer voluntarily removed sitaxentan from the market over concerns of hepatotoxicity. Investigated for use/treatment in pulmonary hypertension, connective tissue diseases, hypertension, and congestive heart failure. Sitaxentan belongs to a class of drugs known as endothelin receptor antagonists (ERAs). Patients with PAH have elevated levels of endothelin, a potent blood vessel constrictor, in their plasma and lung tissue. Sitaxentan blocks the binding of endothelin to its receptors, thereby negating endothelin's deleterious effects. Sitaxentan is a competitive antagonist of endothelin-1 at the endothelin-A (ET-A) and endothelin-B (ET-B) receptors. Under normal conditions, endothelin-1 binding of ET-A or ET-B receptors causes pulmonary vasoconstriction. By blocking this interaction, Sitaxentan decreases pulmonary vascular resistance. Sitaxentan has a higher affinity for ET-A than ET-B. 70-100% 99% + Hepatic (CYP2C9- and CYP3A4-mediated) Renal (50 to 60%)
Sulodexide | DrugBank Online Sulodexide is a mixture of glycosaminoglycans (GAGs) composed of dermatan sulfate (DS) and fast moving heparin (FMH). Sulodexide has been used clinically for the prophylaxis and treatment of vascular diseases with increased risk of thrombosis, including intermittent claudication, peripheral arterial occlusive disease and post-myocardial infarc-tion. Also investigated in the treatment of diabetic kidney disease and diabetic neuropathy. New anti-inflammatory properties have also extended its use in venous disease. Sulodexide is extensively absorbed owing to its low molecular weight compared to unfractionated heparin. It offers the potential advantages of a longer half-life and reduced global anticoagulation effects, properties which differ from other glycosaminoglycans. Sulodexide potentiates antithrombin III and heparin cofactor II due to the presence of both glycoaminoglycan fractions. It is capable of inhibiting both anti-IIa and anti-Xa. It promotes fibrinolytic activity by releasing tissue plasminogen activator and reduces plasminogen activator inhibitor. The drug also blocks platelet adhesion and platelet function induced by cathepsin G and thrombin. Research has also shown that Sulodexide had endothelial protective properties by inducing the overexpression of growth factors important for the protection of organs. It has anti-inflammatory properties via its effect on the release of inflammatory mediators from macrophages. This results in anti-proliferative effects such as the regulation of growth factors like VEGF and FGF.
The intravenous administration has also been shown capable of releasing tissue factor pathway inhibitor from the endothelium, which also contributes to the anti-thrombotic effects of Sulodexide. Lastly, this drug is known for its ability to inhibit the secretion of MMPs, particularly MMP-9, from leukocytes in a dose dependent manner, resulting in the restoration of the balance with their tissue inhibitors. Thrombin inhibition produced by sulodexide is due to the additive effect of its components, namely, heparin cofactor II (HCII) catalysis by dermatan sulfate and antithrombin-III catalysis by fast moving heparin (FMH). Sulodexide can be administered via the oral route, IV and IM routes. After oral dosing, the absorption rate being equivalent, the bioavailability is 40-60%. either calculated from the fast-moving heparin fraction or from the dermatan fraction. Bioavailability following IM administration is approximately 90%. After a rapid absorption in the intestine, the dermatan and heparin components start to appear in the plasma. Sulodexide is degraded after ingestion and loses its sulfate groups and both sulfated and unsulfated groups circulate in the blood for up to 24hours. AUC=22.83+/-4.44mg.h/L. Cmax=516+/-77.54ng/mL,
Tmax=1.33+/-0.58h,
Vd=71.24+/-14.06L (b phase).
Methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta | DrugBank Online Methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta is a chemically synthesised Erythropoiesis Stimulating Agent (ESA) with a longer half-life than erythropoietin. ESA is used to increase synthesis of red blood cells to treat chronic kidney disease associated anemia. For the treatment of patients with anaemia associated with chronic kidney disease. Not a substitute for RBC transfusion if immediate correction of anemia is required. Stimulates hemoglobin production by stimulating the erythropoetin receptor of erythroid progenitor cells in the bone marrow. Hemoglobin increase, following a single initial dose, occurs 7 to 15 days after. Erythropoietin is a growth factor for erythroid development. It is produced in the kidney and released into the bloodstream in response to hypoxia, interacting with erythroid progenitor cells to increase red blood cell production. Production of endogenous erythropoietin is impaired in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), and erythropoietin deficiency is the primary cause of their anaemia. Administration of methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta acts like endogenous erythropoetin and stimulates erythropoetin receptor of the erythroid progenitor cells in the bone marrow. Administered parenterally (subcutaneous or IV) therefore not absorbed. ~94.74 ml/kg No protein binding Not metabolized.  Undergoes proteolysis at erythropoietin receptor  In CKD patients on peritoneal dialysis with IV administration: 134 ± 65 hours
Simeprevir | DrugBank Online Simeprevir is a hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS3/4A protease inhibitor indicated in patient's with HCV genotype 1 for the treatment of chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. HCV is a single-stranded RNA virus that is categorized into nine distinct genotypes, with genotype 1 being the most common in the United States, and affecting 72% of all chronic HCV patients 7. Like all NS3/4A inhibitors, simeprevir is a serine protease inhibitor in similarity to Boceprevir and Telaprevir but is classified as a second generation protease inhibitor. This class of antiviral drugs were the first direct acting antivirals approved but are associated with lower cure rates than newer drugs. Broad use of simeprevir occurred when it was used in combination with a newer drug, Sofosbuvir. Inhibiting HCV NS3/4A protease in a potent and highly specific manner, simeprevir is a direct-acting antiviral agent against the hepatitis C virus. Since the viral protease NS3/4A complex is essential for cleaving the HCV encoded polyprotein into individual viral proteins facilitating replication 4, the drug blocks the viral replication process. It is shown to display synergistic effects with interferon-α and HCV NS5B inhibitor, and additive effects with ribavirin in HCV replicon cells 2. Unlike first generation serine protease inhibitors, simprevir has a sightly different resistance profile where limited therapeutic efficacy of the drug is observed with NS3 Q80K polymorphic variants and simeprevir-specific amino acid position of 168 also results in higher treatment failure rates 3. The observed prevalence of the N3 Q80K polymorphism was 30% in subjects infected with HCV genotype 1a and 0.5% in subjects infected with HCV genotype 1b 3.  According to 2017 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases (AASLD) and 2015 consensus guidelines from the Canadian Association for the Study of the Liver (CASL), simeprevir can be used as first-line or second-line threapies for treatment-naïve patients as adjunct to sofosbuvir treatment for genotype 1 or PEG-Interferon/ribavirin combination therapy for genotype 1 or 4. The combination therapy of simeprevir and other antiviral agents are initiated in HCV-positive patients with the intent to cure, or achieve a sustained virologic response (SVR), after 12 weeks of daily therapy. SVR and eradication of HCV infection is associated with significant long-term health benefits including reduced liver-related damage, improved quality of life, reduced incidence of Hepatocellular Carcinoma, and reduced all-cause mortality 6. Simeprevir was approved by the FDA in November 2014 and is marketed under the brand name Olysio as oral tablets. Administered once daily with food, 150mg simeprevir capsule is used in combination with Sofosbuvir in patients with HCV genotype 1 without cirrhosis for 12 week duration. In patients with HCV genotype 1 with compensated cirrhosis, the treatment is directed for 24 week duration. Sustained virologic response 12 weeks after planned end of treatment (SVR12) was achieved in 170/176 (97%) subjects without cirrhosis treated with 12 weeks simeprevir in combination with sofosbuvir (FDA Label). The overall SVR12 was 88% (44/50) in treatment-naïve patients with cirrhosis 7. Simeprevir is also used in treatment of HCV genotype 4 patients with or without cirrhosis and is taken with Peginterferon alfa-2a and Ribavirin; this triple therapy allows shortening treatment duration from 48 weeks or longer to 12 or 24 weeks 3 depending on prior response status and presence of HIV-1 co-infection. Prior to initiation of treatment with Peginterferon alfa-2a and Ribavirin, screening for the presence of virus with the NS3 Q80K polymorphism is strongly recommended and if detected, alternative treatment should be considered instead to prevent therapeutic failure. The SVR12 was 83% (29/35) in treatment-naïve patients and 86% (19/22) in relapsing patients. Indicated for the treatment of adults with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection: typically in combination with sofosbuvir in patients with HCV genotype 1 without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis and in combination with peginterferon alfa (Peg-IFN-alfa) and ribavirin (RBV) in patients with HCV genotype 1 or 4 without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis.  Resistance: Reduced susceptibility to simeprevir was most commonly associated with the viral NS3 Q80K polymorphism. Amino acid substitutions at NS3 positions S122, R155 and/or D168 are also shown to reduce susceptibility to simeprevir in genotype 1a/b patients.  Simeprevir is a direct-acting antiviral agent and inhibitor for HCV NS3/4A protease, which is an important enzyme required for viral replication. Unlike Boceprevir and Telaprevir, simeprevir is a competitive, reversible, macrocyclic, noncovalent inhibitor. The macromolecular cyclic portion of the molecule improves the affnity and selectivity characteristics, which allows rapid association and slow dissociation to the protein target through noncovalent binding 3.  Simeprevir is accumulated in the liver after uptake into hepatocytes via OATP1B1/3. NS3/4A heterodimeric complex is composed of the cofactor N4A subunit and N3 subunit which contains the proteolytic site. The NS3/4A protease cleaves the HCV polyprotein downstream of the NS3 site, generating non-structural viral proteins NS3, NS4A, NS4B, NS5A and NS5A and subsequently formation of mature proteins 3,4. Simeprevir exerts an inhibitory action on HCV polyprotein cleavage via induced-fit binding to an extended S2 subsite located in the NS3 catalytic site 5. NS3/4A inhibitors usually depend on few interactions located in the substrate binding groove of the viral serine protease, thus are susceptible to resistance and failed treatment from few critical mutations in these sites.
At higher concentration above their antiviral half-maximal effective concentration (EC50), simeprevir and other NS3/4A inhibitors also restore interferon (IFN)-signaling pathways that are thought to be disrupted by NS3/4A protease and recover innate immune processes. NS3/4A protease cleaves two essential adaptor proteins that initiate signaling leading to activation of IFN regulatory factor 3 and IFN-α/β synthesis, which are mitochondrial antiviral-signaling proteins (MAVS otherwise known as IPS-1, VISA, or Cardif) and toll/interleukin-1 receptor (TIR)- domain-containing adaptor-inducing IFN-β (TRIF). Blocking the function of these adaptor proteins results in impaired interferon induction. NS3/4A inhibitors recover the proper IFN-signaling pathways 3,4.  The mean absolute bioavailability of simeprevir following a single oral 150 mg dose of simeprevir capsule in fed conditions is 62%. Maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) are typically
Ponatinib | DrugBank Online Ponatinib is a novel Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase inhibitor that is especially effective against the T315I mutation for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia. FDA approved on December 14, 2012. Ponatinib is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with chronic phase, accelerated phase, or blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) that is resistant or intolerant to prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy or Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ALL) that is resistant or intolerant to prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy. Ponatinib is a multi-target kinase inhibitor. Its primary cellular target is the Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase protein which is constitutively active and promotes the progression of CML. This protein arises from the fused Bcr and Abl gene- what is commonly known as the Philadelphia chromosome. Ponatinib is unique in that it is especially useful in the treatment of resistant CML because it inhibits the tyrosine kinase activity of Abl and T315I mutant kinases. The T315I mutation confers resistance in cells as it prevents other Bcr-Abl inhibitors from binding to the Abl kinase. Other targets that ponatinib inhibits are members of the VEGFR, PDGFR, FGFR, EPH receptors and SRC families of kinases, and KIT, RET, TIE2, and FLT3. A decrease in tumour size expressing native or T315I mutant BCR-ABL have been observed in rats.  The absolute bioavailability of ponatinib is unknown. Peak concentrations of ponatinib are observed within 6 hours after Iclusig oral administration. Food does not affect absorption of food. The aqueous solubility of ponatinib is pH dependent, with higher pH resulting in lower solubility.
When 45 mg of ponatinib is given to cancer patients, the pharmacokinetic parameters are as follows:
Cmax = 73 ng/mL;
Darapladib | DrugBank Online Investigated for use/treatment in atherosclerosis. Darapladib is a selective lipoprotein-associated phospholipase A2 (Lp-PLA2) inhibitor. Lp-PLA2 is an enzymatic upstream mediator of inflammatory processes.
AVE9633 | DrugBank Online AVE9633 is an anti-CD33 monoclonal antibody-DM4 conjugate. Investigated for use/treatment in leukemia (myeloid). An immunoconjugate consisting of the humanized monoclonal antibody huMy9-6 conjugated to the cytotoxic maytansinoid derivative DM4 with potential antineoplastic activity. The monoclonal antibody portion of anti-CD33 monoclonal antibody-DM4 conjugate AVE9633 specifically binds to the cell surface antigen CD33 expressed on myeloid leukemia cells; upon internalization, the DM4 moiety is released, binds tubulin, and disrupts microtubule assembly/disassembly dynamics, resulting in the inhibition of cell division and cell growth in myeloid leukemia cells that express CD33. CD33 is expressed on normal non-pluripotent hematopoietic stem cells as well as on myeloid leukemia cells.
Carotuximab | DrugBank Online Investigated for use/treatment in solid tumors. TRC105 is a first-in-class human chimeric monoclonal antibody that inhibits tumor growth by binding to CD105 (endoglin), a receptor over-expressed on proliferating endothelium that is required for angiogenesis (growth of new blood vessels). TRC105 has shown activity, as monotherapy or when combined with chemotherapy, in pre-clinical studies of breast and colorectal cancer. Pre-clinical data also indicate CD105 expression is increased following treatment of human cancer with anti-VEGF therapy. The target of TRC105 shares many features with the VEGF receptor. Most importantly, both the VEGF and CD105 receptors are essential for angiogenesis, in that deletion of either receptor prevents blood vessel formation in utero.
Pegpleranib | DrugBank Online Investigated for use/treatment in macular degeneration and eye disorders/infections. E10030 is an aptamer based, anti-platelet-derived growth factor (PDGF) which inhibits PDGF-B with high specificity and affinity. E10030 may be efficacious in treating neovascular age-related macular degeneration when combined with a vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF-A) inhibitor. PDGF-B is implicated in vascular stability and function through its role in activating the recruitment of mural cells (pericytes) by endothelial cells to envelop the developing vasculature. Pericyte recruitment is part of the maturation process in blood vessel development and pericytes act as support cells for mature blood vessels. [Opthotech Corp. Website]
Methoxyamine | DrugBank Online Investigated for use/treatment in cancer/tumors (unspecified). Methoyxamine is investigated for use as an adjunct to alkylating agents, reverse resistance to chemotherapy, and enhancing radiation therapy.
4-O-Demethylpenclomedine | DrugBank Online Investigated for use/treatment in solid tumors. DMPEN (4,o-demethylpenclomedine) is the highly reactive principal alkylating metabolite of Penclomedine (PEN), a multichlorinated alpha-picoline derivative.
Saxagliptin | DrugBank Online Saxagliptin (rINN) is an orally active hypoglycemic (anti-diabetic drug) of the new dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor class of drugs. FDA approved on July 31, 2009. Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus to improve glycemic control in combination with other agents or as monotherapy.  Post-administration of saxagliptin, GLP-1 and GIP levels rise up to 2- to 3- fold. Because it is very selective of DPP-4 inhibition, there are fewer systemic side effects. Saxagliptin inhibits DPP-4 enzyme activity for a 24-hour period. It also decreased glucagon concentrations and increased glucose-dependent insulin secretion from pancreatic beta cells. The half maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) is 0.5 nmol/L. Saxagliptin did not prolong the QTc interval to a clinically significant degree.  Saxagliptin is a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitor antidiabetic for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. DPP-4 inhibitors are a class of compounds that work by affecting the action of natural hormones in the body called incretins. Incretins decrease blood sugar by increasing consumption of sugar by the body, mainly through increasing insulin production in the pancreas, and by reducing production of sugar by the liver. [Bristol-Myers Squibb Press Release]
DPP-4 is a membrane associated peptidase which is found in many tissues, lymphocytes and plasma. DPP-4 has two main mechanisms of action, an enzymatic function and another mechanism where DPP-4 binds adenosine deaminase, which conveys intracellular signals via dimerization when activated. Saxagliptin forms a reversible, histidine-assisted covalent bond between its nitrile group and the S630 hydroxyl oxygen on DPP-4. The inhibition of DPP-4 increases levels active of glucagon like peptide 1 (GLP-1), which inhibits glucagon production from pancreatic alpha cells and increases production of insulin from pancreatic beta cells. Following a 5 mg single oral dose of saxagliptin to healthy subjects, the mean plasma AUC values for saxagliptin and its active metabolite were 78 ng•h/mL and 214 ng•h/mL, respectively. The corresponding plasma Cmax values were 24 ng/mL and 47 ng/mL, respectively. Saxagliptin did not accumulate following repeated doses. The median time to maximum concentration (Tmax) following the 5 mg once daily dose was 2 hours for saxagliptin and 4 hours for its active metabolite.
Bioavailability, 2.5 - 50 mg dose = 67%  151 L  The in vitro protein binding of saxagliptin and its active metabolite in human serum is negligible (<10%). The metabolism of saxagliptin is primarily mediated by cytochrome P450 3A4/5 (CYP3A4/5). 50% of the absorbed dose will undergo hepatic metabolism. The major metabolite of saxagliptin, 5-hydroxy saxagliptin, is also a DPP4 inhibitor, which is one-half as potent as saxagliptin.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Saxagliptin is eliminated by both renal and hepatic pathways. Following a single 50 mg dose of 14C-saxagliptin, 24%, 36%, and 75% of the dose was excreted in the urine as saxagliptin, its active metabolite, and total radioactivity, respectively. A total of 22% of the administered radioactivity was recovered in feces representing the fraction of the saxagliptin dose excreted in bile and/or unabsorbed drug from the gastrointestinal tract. Saxagliptin = 2.5 hours;
Danegaptide | DrugBank Online Danegaptide has been investigated for the treatment of Focus of Study is STEMI. Danegaptide, a small modified dipeptide, is a selective second generation gap junction modifier with oral bioavailability. Danegaptide prevents postoperative atrial fibrillation (AF) and chronic AF in large animal models. In a canine model of acute sterile pericarditis, Danegaptide significantly reduced AF duration and overall AF burden.
Elacestrant | DrugBank Online Investigated for use/treatment in menopause and female hormonal deficiencies/abnormalities. RAD1901 is a novel selective estrogen receptor modulator(SERM). SERMs are small molecules that bind to and selectively modulate estrogen receptors. These molecules have the ability to stimulate or block estrogen's activity in different types of tissue, functioning as estrogen receptor agonists in some tissues and as estrogen receptor antagonists in others.
Plecanatide | DrugBank Online Plecanatide is a drug approved in January 2017 by the FDA for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC). It should not be used in children less than six years of age, and should be avoided in patients six years to 18 years of age Plecanatide stimulates intestinal fluid secretions in the gastrointestinal tract to support regular bowel function. Plecanatide, taken orally once daily, works locally in the upper GI tract to stimulate secretion of intestinal fluid and support regular bowel function. Food Effect Subjects who received either a low-fat, low calorie (LF-LC) meal or a high fat, high calorie (HF-HC) meal reported looser stools than fasted subjects up to 24 hours after a single dose of 9 mg (3 times the recommended dose). In clinical studies, Plecanatide was administered with or without food. Guanylate cyclase C (GC-C) agonist
Plecanatide and its active metabolite bind to GC-C and act locally on the luminal surface of intestinal epithelial cells; GC-C activation leads to increased cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), which, in turn, stimulates secretion of chloride and bicarbonate into the intestinal lumen, mainly by activation of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) ion channel, resulting in increased intestinal fluid and accelerated transit.
In animal models, plecanatide has been shown to increase fluid secretion into the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, accelerate intestinal transit, and cause changes in stool consistency.
In an animal model of visceral pain, plecanatide reduced abdominal muscle contractions, a measure of intestinal pain. The mechanism has not been studied.  Plecanatide is minimally absorbed with negligible systemic availability following oral administration.
Telavancin | DrugBank Online Telavancin is a semi-synthetic derivative of vanocymycin that has bactericidal activity against Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) and other gram-positive bacteria. MRSA is an important pathogen capable of causing hospital-acquired pneumonia (HAP), ventilator-associated pneumonia (VAP), and skin and subcutaneous tissue infections among others. For the treatment of complicated skin and skin structure infections (cSSSI) caused by gram-positive bacteria like methicillin-susceptible or -resistant Staphylococcus aureus, vancomycin-susceptible Enterococcus faecalis, and Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus agalactiae, or Streptococcus anginosus group. Also for the treatment of adult patients with hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia (HAP) and ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia (VAP), known or suspected to be caused by susceptible isolates of Staphylococcus aureus (including methicillin-susceptible and methicillin-resistant S. aureus). Telavancin is a semi-synthetic derivative of vancomycin, therefore the mode of bactericidal action is similar to vancomycin in which both antibiotics inhibit cell wall synthesis. Not only that, it displays concentration-dependent bactericidal action. Furthermore, telavancin is a more potent inhibitor (10-fold) of peptidoglycan synthesis and, unlike vancomycin, disrupts cell membrane integrity via its interaction with lipid II. AUC/MIC ratio best predicts the extent of in-vivo response in which the higher the ratio, the greater the bactericidal activity. The smallest ratio in which one would be able to observe no bacterial growth at 24 hours is 50. Maximal bactericidal activity is observed at a AUC/MIC ratio of 404.  Telavancin is a bactericidal lipoglycopeptide that is active against a broad range of gram-positive bacteria. Telavancin prevents polymerization of N-acetylmuramic acid (NAM) and N-acetylglucosamine (NAG) and cross-linking of peptidoglycan by binding to D-Ala-D-Ala. As a result, inhibition of bacterial cell wall synthesis occurs. Furthermore, telavancin disrupts membrane potential and cell permeability as a result of the lipophillic side chain moiety. This additional bactericidal mechanism is what sets telavancin apart from vancomycin.  Telavancin demonstrates linear pharmacokinetics at doses between 1 and 12.5 mg/kg. Furthermore, 24 hours post-infusion of a dose of 7.5 to 15 mg/kg, activity against MRSA and penicillin-resistant Streptococcus pneumonia can still be observed. The trough concentration at this point of time is approximately 10
μg/mL. Telavancin also has poor bioavailability and must be administered over 30-120 minutes IV.
Cmax, healthy subjects, 10 mg/kg = 93.6 ± 14.2 μg/mL;
AUC (0- ∞), healthy subjects, 10 mg/kg = 747 ± 129 μg · h/mL;
AUC (0-24h), healthy subjects, 10 mg/kg = 666± 107 μg · h/mL;
Ambrisentan | DrugBank Online Ambrisentan is an orally active selective type A endothelin receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of pulmonary arterial hypertension. It is approved in Europe, Canada and the United States for use as a single agent to improve exercise ability and delay clinical worsening. In addition, it is approved in the United States for use in combination with tadalafil to reduce the risks of disease progression, hospitalization and to improve exercise ability. Studies establishing the efficacy of Ambrisentan included patients with both idiopathic or heritable pulmonary arterial hypertension and those with pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with connective tissue diseases. Patients studied displayed symptoms and etiologies predominantly of WHO Functional Class II-III. As an endothelin receptor antagonist, Ambrisentan prevents endogenous endothelin peptide from constricting the muscles in blood vessels, allowing them to relax and permit a reduction in blood pressure. Ambrisentan is indicated for treatment of idiopathic (‘primary’) pulmonary arterial hypertension (IPAH) and pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) associated with connective tissue disease in patients with WHO functional class II or III symptoms. In the United States of America, ambrisentan is also indicated in combination with tadalafil to reduce the risks of disease progression and hospitalization for worsening PAH, and to improve exercise ability. Ambrisentan 10 mg daily had no significant effect on the QTc interval, whereas a 40 mg daily dose of ambrisentan increased mean QTc at tmax by 5 ms with an upper 95% confidence limit of 9 ms. Significant QTc prolongation is not expected in patients taking ambrisentan without concomitant metabolic inhibitors.
Plasma concentrations of B-type natriuretic peptide (BNP) in patients who received ambrisentan for 12 weeks were significantly decreased. Two Phase III placebo-controlled studies demonstrated a decrease in BNP plasma concentrations by 29% in the 2.5 mg group, 30% in the 5 mg group, and 45% in the 10 mg group (p < 0.001 for each dose group) and an increase by 11% in the placebo group. Endothelin-1 (ET-1) is an endogenous peptide that acts on the endothelin type A (ETA) and endothelin type B (ETB) receptors in vascular smooth muscle and endothelium. ETA-mediated actions include vasoconstriction and cell proliferation, whereas ETB predominantly mediates vasodilation, anti-proliferation, and ET-1 clearance. In patients with pulmonary arterial hypertension, ET-1 levels are increased and correlate with increased right arterial pressure and severity of disease.
Oxymetholone | DrugBank Online Oxymetholone is a synthetic anabolic steroid marketed under the brand name Anapolon by Hoffmann La Roche Limitedand used in the treatment of osteoporosis, anaemia, and as an agent to stimulate muscle growth in malnourished or underdeveloped patients. Anabolic-androgenic steroids (AAS), such as oxymetholone, have been abused by bodybuilders and athletes. The uncontrolled misuse of oxymetholone can lead to a large variety of detrimental effects, the most often reported of which are cardiovascular events. In 2009, no producers of oxymetholone were identified worldwide (SRI 2009), but it was available from 14 suppliers, including 8 U.S. suppliers (ChemSources 2009). Indicated in the treatment of anemias caused by deficient red cell production. Acquired aplastic anemia, congenital aplastic anemia, myelofibrosis and the hypoplastic anemias due to the administration of myelotoxic drugs often respond. Oxymetholone should not replace other supportive measures such as transfusion, correction of iron, folic acid, vitamin B12 or pyridoxine deficiency, antibacterial therapy and the appropriate use of corticosteroids.  Oxymethalone is a 17 alpha-alkylated anabolic-androgenic steroid and a synthetic derivative of testosterone, whose anabolic effects are used to treat muscle wasting in HIV patients. The effects of testosterone in humans and other vertebrates occur by way of two main mechanisms: by activation of the androgen receptor (directly or as DHT), and by conversion to estradiol and activation of certain estrogen receptors. Free testosterone (T) is transported into the cytoplasm of target tissue cells, where it can bind to the androgen receptor, or can be reduced to 5α-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) by the cytoplasmic enzyme 5α-reductase. DHT binds to the same androgen receptor even more strongly than T, so that its androgenic potency is about 2.5 times that of T. The T-receptor or DHT-receptor complex undergoes a structural change that allows it to move into the cell nucleus and bind directly to specific nucleotide sequences of the chromosomal DNA. The areas of binding are called hormone response elements (HREs), and influence transcriptional activity of certain genes, producing the androgen effects. May cause cancer.
Armodafinil | DrugBank Online Armodafinil is the enantiopure of the wakefulness-promoting agent modafinil (Provigil), and is indicated to improve wakefulness in adult patients with excessive sleepiness associated with obstructive sleep apnea (OSA), narcolepsy, or shift work disorder (SWD). Research has shown that armodafinil significantly improves driving simulator performance in patients with SWD. Armodafinil consists of the (−)-R-enantiomer of the racemic modafinil. Armodafinil is produced by the pharmaceutical company Cephalon Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd.) and was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in June 2007. Investigated for use/treatment in sleep disorders, obstructive sleep apnea, schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorders, depression, and bipolar disorders. Nuvigil (armodafinil) is a single-isomer of modafini. The exact mechanism of action is unknown. Armodafinil belongs to a class of drugs known as eugeroics, which are stimulants that provide long-lasting mental arousal. Pharmacologically, armodafinil does not bind to or inhibit several receptors and enzymes potentially relevant for sleep/wake regulation. Armodafinil is not a direct- or indirect-acting dopamine receptor agonist. However, in vitro, both armodafinil and modafinil bind to the dopamine transporter and inhibit dopamine reuptake. [Medilexicon] Tmax is 2 hours when fasted and can be delayed approximately 2-4 hours by food, potentially affecting the onset of action. Apparent volume of distribution: 42L. Specific data unavailable. Similar to modafinil: approximately 60%, primarily to albumin.  In vitro and in vivo data show that armodafinil undergoes hydrolytic deamidation, S-oxidation, and aromatic ring hydroxylation, with subsequent glucuronide conjugation of the hydroxylated products. Amide hydrolysis is the single most prominent metabolic pathway, with sulfone formation by cytochrome P450 (CYP) 3A4/5 being next in importance. The other oxidative products are formed too slowly in vitro to enable identification of the enzyme(s) responsible. Only two metabolites reach appreciable concentrations in plasma (i.e., R-modafinil acid and modafinil sulfone). Data specific to armodafinil disposition are not available. Terminal half-life is approximately 15 hours. The oral clearance of armodafinil is approximately 33 mL/min. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. http://www.google.com/patents/EP2649187A2?cl=en
Etravirine | DrugBank Online Etravirine is an antiretroviral agent more specifically classified as a Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor(NNRTI). Etraverine is used clinically for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection.
On January 18, 2007, the FDA granted accelerated approved for the use of etravirine 100mg tablets in the treatment of adult HIV-1 infection documented to be resistant to therapy with other NNRTIs and antiretroviral agents. On March 26, 2012, approval was extended for use in treatment-experienced pediatric patients 6 to 18 years of age, weighing at least 16 kg. Etravarine must always be used in combination with other antiretroviral drugs.  Etravirine exerts its effects via direct inhibition of the reverse transcriptase enzyme of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), and consequently blocks DNA-dependent and RNA-dependent polymerase activity. Etravirine does not inhibit human DNA polymerase alpha, beta or gamma.  Common side effects of use include mild to moderate rash within the first 6 weeks of therapy, nausea, diarrhea and peripheral neuropathy. Patients are advised to immediately contact their healthcare provider if a rash develops.  In 2009, postmarketing case reports of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, and other hypersensitivity reactions lead to a revision of etravirine's "Warnings and Precautions," as well as notification of health care providers.  In 2013, reports of Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré
syndrome) in the setting of immune reconstitution, as well as more in depth information about the development of rashes in patients taking etravirine, lead to a modification of etravirine's monograph. Indicated as an adjunct therapy in the treatment of adult HIV-1 infections resistant to therapy with other NNRTIs and antiretroviral agents.  Clinical trials have shown no prolongation of QT intervals on electrocardiograms after 8 days of dosing.  Etravirine exerts its effects via direct inhibition of the reverse transcriptase enzyme of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). It directly binds reverse transcriptase and consequently blocks DNA-dependent and RNA-dependent polymerase activity. Etravirine does not inhibit human DNA polymerase alpha, beta or gamma.  Maximum oral absorption is achieved in 2.5-4 hours.  Absorption is unaffected by the concomitant use of oral ranitidine or omeprazole, which decrease gastric acidity.  Administration under fasting conditions resulted in a near 50% decrease in systemic exposure (AUC) when compared to administration after a meal.  Distribution of etravirine into compartments other than plasma has not been evaluated in humans.  Plasma protein binding is about 99.9% in vitro.
In vitro, 99.6% is bound to albumin, and 97.66% - 99.02% is bound to 1-alpha glycoprotein.  Metabolized (in vitro) by the liver CYP450 enzymes: CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19. The major metabolites formed by a methyl hydroxylation of the dimethylbenzonitrile moiety retained less than 90% of etravirine's activity.  After a 800mg dose of radio-labelled etraverine, 93.7% was found to undergo fecal elimination, with 81.2% - 86.4% eliminated unchanged.
Sufugolix | DrugBank Online Investigated for use/treatment in endometriosis and uterine fibroids. Endometriosis is a painful, fertility threatening condition that is a result of tissue similar to that found in the womb lining growing elsewhere in the pelvis. The condition is sex hormone dependent, with gonadotropin releasing hormone (GnRH), a hypothalamic decapeptide amide that plays an important part in the regulation of reproductive processes, being implicated.
Pazopanib | DrugBank Online Pazopanib is a small molecule inhibitor of multiple protein tyrosine kinases with potential antineoplastic activity. It is developed by GlaxoSmithKline and was FDA approved on October 19, 2009. Treatment of advanced renal cell cancer and advanced soft tissue sarcoma (in patients previously treated with chemotherapy)  Pazopanib is a synthetic indazolylpyrimidine and reaches steady state concentrations of >15 μg/ml. This concentration is high enough to observe maximal inhibition of VEGFR2 phosphorylation and some anti-tumour activity (concentration required to inhibit receptors is 0.01 - 0.084 μmol/L). A reduction in tumour blood flow, increased tumour apoptosis, inhibition of tumour growth, reduction in tumour interstitial fluid pressure, and hypoxia in cancer cells can be observed in patients receiving treatment.  Pazopanib is a second-generation multitargeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor against vascular endothelial growth factor receptor-1, -2, and -3, platelet-derived growth factor receptor-alpha, platelet-derived growth factor receptor-beta, and c-kit. These receptor targets are part of the angiogenesis pathway that facilitates the formation of tumour blood vessel for tumour survival and growth.  Absorption of pazopanib in cancer patients is slow and incomplete. In patients with solid tumour, over a dose range of 50-2000 mg, absorption is nonlinear. Significant accumulation of pazopanib can also be observed in patients receiving 800 mg once daily for 22 days. Crushing tablets may increase exposure (increase in Cmax and AUC, while Tmax decreases by 2 hours).
Bioavailability, oral tablet 800 mg, cancer patient = 21%;
Bioavailability may be low due to incomplete absorption from the gastrointestinal tract. The major circulating component of the drug in the systemic is pazopanib, and not its metabolites.
Mean maximum plasma concentration= 58.1 µg/mL;
Mean AUC= 1037 µg · h/mL;  Vd steady state, IV administration 5 mg, cancer patient = 11.1 L (range of 9.15 - 13.4)  >99% protein bound, independent of concentrations over a range of 10-100 μg/mL.  Metabolized by CYP3A4 and to a lesser extent by CYP1A2 and CYP2C8. Metabolites are less active than pazopanib (10 to 20-fold less active). Three of its metabolites can be observed in the systemic and account for <10% of plasma radioactivity.  Primarily excreted via feces (82.2%) and to a negligible extent via urine (<4%) in cancer patients. Most of the administered dose is excreted unchanged. Approximately 10% of dose are oxidative metabolites and are mostly eliminated via the feces.  35 hours. Oral absorption is not the rate limiting step of elimination from the plasma.  CL, cancer patient, IV administration 5 mg = 4mL/min
Ceftaroline fosamil | DrugBank Online Ceftaroline fosamil is a cephalosporin antibacterial indicated for the treatment of the following infections caused by designated susceptible bacteria:
Acute bacterial skin and skin structure infections.
Community-acquired bacterial pneumonia. Ceftaroline fosamil is indicated for the treatment of patients with the following infections caused by susceptible isolates of the designated microorganisms. The time that unbound plasma concentration of ceftaroline exceeds the minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) of the infecting organism has been shown to best correlate with efficacy in a neutropenic murine thigh infection model with S. aureus and S. pneumoniae. No significant effect on QTc (corrected QT interval) interval was detected at peak plasma concentration or at any other time. Ceftaroline fosamil is an antibacterial drug.  Median 20.3 L (18.3-21.6 L).  approximately 20%.  Ceftaroline fosamil is converted into bioactive ceftaroline in plasma by a phosphatase enzyme. Hydrolysis of the beta-lactam ring of ceftaroline occurs to form the microbiologically inactive, open-ring metabolite ceftaroline M-1. Hover over products below to view reaction partners primarily eliminated by the kidneys (6% in feces within 48 hours).  1.60 hours (600 mg dose). LD50/LC50:
Draize test, rabbit, eye: 100 mg/24H Moderate; Oral,
mouse: LD50 = 300 mg/kg; Oral, rabbit: LD50 = 3200 mg/kg; Oral, rat:
Prasterone | DrugBank Online Prasterone, also known as dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) is a major C19 steroid produced by the adrenal cortex. It is also produced in small quantities in the testis and the ovary. Dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) can be converted to testosterone; androstenedione; estradiol; and estrone. Most of DHEA is sulfated (dehydroepiandrosterone sulfate) before secretion. In the United States, DHEA or DHEAS have been advertised with claims that they may be beneficial for a wide variety of ailments. DHEA and DHEAS are readily available in the United States, where they are marketed as over-the-counter dietary supplements. In November 2016, DHEA was approved (as Intrarosa) to treat women experiencing moderate to severe pain during sexual intercourse (dyspareunia), a symptom of vulvar and vaginal atrophy (VVA), due to menopause. In Canada, a prescription is required to buy DHEA. DHEA is taken as a supplement for a variety of unsubstantiated indications. The following indications have shown promise and are backed up by some scientific evidence: schizophrenia (DHEA may be more effective in women than men); improving the appearance of older people’s skin (taking DHEA by mouth seems to increase skin thickness and moisture, and decrease facial “age spots” in elderly men and women); improving ability to achieve an erection in men with sexual dysfunction. Additionally, DHEA has shown promise in improving symptoms of lupus (SLE). Taking DHEA by mouth along with conventional treatment may help reduce the number of times symptoms flare up and may allow a reduction in the dose of prescription drugs needed. DHEA may also help SLE symptoms such as muscle ache and mouth ulcers. DHEA also seems to strengthen bones in SLE patients being treated with high-dose steroids (corticosteroids).
Midostaurin | DrugBank Online Midostaurin (as Rydapt) is a multitarget kinase inhibitor for the treatment for adult patients with newly diagnosed acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who have a specific genetic mutation called FLT3. It was initially characterized as a potential broad-spectrum antineoplastic agent, with activity toward diverse solid and hematopoietic tumors 4. It was approved on April 28, 2017 and has shown to increase the overall survival rate in patients with AML as an adjunct therapy along with chemotherapeutic agents. Investigated for use/treatment in adult patients with high-risk acute myeloid leukemia (AML) who are FLT3 mutation-positive, agressive systemic mastocytosis (ASM), systemic mastocytosis with associated hematological neoplasm (SM-AHN), or mast cell leukemia (MCL).  It targets multiple WT and mutated kinases that, when activated, constitutively stimulate aberrant signalling cascades that lead to malignancies such as AML and ASM. Alternative pharmacodynamic effect of midostaurin in prolonging QTc intervals was not clinically significant in patients with advanced SM or AML when compared to placebo. Midostaurin is therapeutically beneficial as a combination therapy for patients undergoing chemotherapy.  It potently inhibits multiple receptor tyrosine kinases. Midostaurin and its major active metabolites CGP62221 and CGP52421 inhibit the activity of protein kinase C alpha (PKCalpha), VEGFR2, KIT, PDGFR and WT and/or mutant FLT3 tyrosine kinases. Inhibition of FLT3 receptor signalling cascades induces apoptosis of target leukemia cells expressing target receptors and mast cells, in addition to its antiproliferative activity toward multiple cancer cell lines 4.
Reslizumab | DrugBank Online Reslizumab is a humanized interleukin-5 (IL-5) antagonist monoclonal antibody (IgG4 kappa) that is produced by recombinant DNA technology in murine myeloma non-secreting 0 (NS0) cells. IL-5 is a pro-inflammatory cytokine that is responsible for the growth and differentiation, recruitment, activation, and survival of eosinophils Label. Elevated levels of eosinophils increase the risk for asthma exacerbations, including both allergic forms and nonallergic forms of asthma where eosinophilia is prominent. By targeting the IL-5 and disrupting its signalling pathways, reslizumab aims to inhibit eosinophil maturation and promote programmed cell death 2. Asthma is a chronic respiratory disease that causes inflammation in the lungs with asthma attacks that lead to severe breathing difficulties. Patients often experience persistent or exacerbating symptoms overtime despite conventional first-line therapies available. Inflammation-predominant asthma, which is chatacterized by eosinophilic infiltration of airway mucosa and elevated levels of eosinophils in the blood, sputum and BAL fluid, is associated with an increased risk for recurrent exacerbation and asthma-related hospitalizations 3. In four double-blind, randomized, placebo‑controlled trials in patients with severe asthma on currently available therapies, patients receiving reslizumab had fewer asthma attacks, and a longer time to the first attack compared to patients receiving placebo Label,3. In addition, a significant improvement in lung function was seen, as measured by the volume of air exhaled by patients in one second 4. Studies demonstrated that reslizumab was not effective in various asthma outcomes in patients without eosinophilia 1. Reslizumab was developed by Teva Pharmaceuticals. Approved by the FDA in March 2016, reslizumab is marketed under the brand name Cinqair for intravenous injection. It is injected once every four weeks via intravenous infusion. Cinqair is indicated as an add-on maintenance therapy for adults with severe asthma with an eosinophilic phenotype. It is approved for patients who have a history of severe asthma attacks (exacerbations) despite receiving their current asthma medicines. Reslizumab is marketed as Cinqaero in Europe. Indicated for the add-on maintenance treatment of patients with severe asthma aged 18 years and older with an eosinophilic phenotype. A reduction in blood eosinophil counts was observed in clinical studies following an initial infusion of 3 mg/kg reslizumab and was maintained through 52 weeks of treatment with no signs of tachyphylaxis. Greater reductions of blood eosinophils were observed in subjects with higher reslizumab serum concentrations. This effect was independent of the presence of treatment-emergent anti-reslizumab antibodies Label.  Reslizumab an interleukin-5 (IL-5) antagonist (IgG4, kappa) that binds to IL-5 with a dissociation constant of 81 pM. IL-5 is a proinflammatory cytokine responsible for the terminal maturation of eosinophils and increases chemotaxis, endothelial adhesion, activation and survival of eosinophils. Eosinophils are known to play a central role in the pathophysiology of many patients with asthma; upon activation, eosinophils release leukotrienes, platelet activation factor, major basic protein, eosinophil cationic protein, eosinophil peroxidase, eosinophil-derived neurotoxin, and other cytokines that are cytotoxic to the bronchial epithelium and lead to airway inflammation and bronchospasm 1. IL-5 production is increased by upon activation of TH2 lymphocytes after antigen exposure and IL-5 stimulates the production and maturation of eosinophil precursors in the bone marrow 1. IL-5 promotes the growth and differentiation, recruitment, activation, and survival of eosinophils via interacting with the IL-5 receptor expressed on the eosinophil surface Label. Increased production and activation of eosinophils is especially prominent in nonallergic forms of asthma 1. Reslizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody that occupies the region ERRR (glutamic acid, arginine, arginine, arginine) corresponding to amino acids 89–92 on IL-5, which is a region critical for its interaction with the IL-5 receptor on the eosinophil surface 1. By binding to IL-5 and disrupting its binding to the alpha chain of the IL-5 receptor complex, reslizumab inhibits the bioactivity of IL-5 and attenuates IL-5 signaling. Blocking of IL-5 signalling thereby reduces the production and survival of eosinophils and inhibits eosinophilic-driven inflammation. The peak serum concentrations of reslizumab were typically observed at the end of the infusion with the serum concentrations gradually declining from the peak in a biphasic manner. Following multiple doses, serum concentrations of reslizumab accumulated approximately 1.5 to 1.9-fold. Interindividual variability in peak and overall exposure across healthy individuals, patients with asthma, and other populations in pharmacokinetic studies was around 20-30% Label. Systemic exposure to reslizumab appeared to be unaffected by the presence of treatment-emergent anti-reslizumab antibodies.  The approximate volume of distribution of reslizumab is 5L, suggesting minimal distribution to the extravascular tissues Label. Like other monoclonal antibodies, reslizumab is assumed to undergo enzymatic proteolysis into smaller peptides and amino acids. As reslizumab bind to the target, it is not expected to undergo a target-mediated clearance Label. The half-life is approximately 24 days Label. Reslizumab clearance was approximately 7 mL/hour Label. Single doses of up to 732 mg have been administered intravenously to subjects in clinical trials without evidence of dose-related toxicities. There is no specific treatment for an overdose with reslizumab. If the event of an overdose, the patient should be treated supportively with appropriate monitoring as necessary Label. Based on the findings of a 6-month bioassay, reslizumab showed no evidence of carcinogenicity. In a fertility study, administration of reslizumab to parental mice at doses up to 50 mg/kg
Bosutinib | DrugBank Online Bosutinib is a Bcr-Abl kinase inhibitor for the treatment of Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML). Compared to other tyrosine kinase inhibitors, it has a more favourable hematologic toxicity profile. FDA approved on September 4, 2012. Treatment of chronic, accelerated, or blast phase Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy in adult patients.  Bosutinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor. Although it is able to inhibit several tyrosine kinases such as Src, Lyn, and Hck, which are members of the Src-family of kinases, its primary target is the Bcr-Abl kinase. The Bcr-Abl gene is a chimeric oncogene created from the fusion of the breakpoint-cluster (Bcr) gene and Abelson (Abl) tyrosine gene. This chromosomal abnormality results in the formation of what is commonly known as the Philadelphia chromosome or Philadelphia translocation. The Bcr-Abl gene expresses a particular kinase that promotes the progression of CML. A decrease in the growth and size of the CML tumour has been observed following administration of bosutinib. Bosutinib did not inhibit the T315I and V299L mutant cells.  Food increase the exposure of bosutinib.
Tmax, single dose, cancer patients, fed-state = 4-6 hours;
After 15 daily doses of bosutinib 500 mg with food in CML patients, the pharmacokinetic parameters are as follows:
Cmax = 200 ng/mL;
Dalfampridine | DrugBank Online Dalfampridine is a potassium channel blocker used to help multiple sclerosis patients walk. This is the first drug that was specifically approved to help with mobility in these patients. FDA approved on January 22, 2010. Dalfampridine is a neurofunctional modifier that helps improve walking speed in patients with multiple sclerosis (MS).  Dalfampridine is a board-spectrum lipophillic potassium channel blocker and binds favourably to the open state than closed state of the potassium channel in the CNS. Its pharmacological target are the potassium channels exposed in MS patients. Does not prolong the QTc interval.  In MS, axons are progressively demyelinated which exposes potassium channels. As a result, there is a leak of potassium ions which results in the repolarization of cells and a decrease in neuronal excitability. The overall impact is the impairment of neuromuscular transmission as it is harder to trigger an action potential.
Dalfampridine inhibits voltage-gated potassium channels in the CNS to maintain the transmembrane potential and prolong action potential. In other words, dalfampridine works to make sure that the current available is high enough to stimulate conduction in demyelinated axons that are exposed in MS patients. Furthermore, it facilitates neuromuscular and synaptic transmission by relieving conduction blocks in demyelinated axons.  Orally-administered dalfampridine is rapidly and completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract.
Tmax, immediate release form = 1 hour;
Tmax, extended release form = 3.5 hours;
Cmax, 10 mg extended release = 17.3 - 21.6 ng/mL;
Relative bioavailability of 10 mg extended-release tablets compared to aqueous oral solution = 96% 10 mg extended release = 2.6 L/kg  10 mg extended release = 1-3% protein bound  Not extensively metabolized by the liver therefore drugs effecting the cytochrome P450 enzyme system that are concomitantly administered with dalfampridine are not expected to interact with each other. Metabolites include 3-hydroxy-4-aminopyridine and 3-hydroxy-4-aminopyridine sulfate and both are inactive. CYP2E1 is the enzyme responsible for 3-hydroxylation of dalfampridine.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Almost all of the dose and its metabolites are completely eliminated by the kidneys after 24 hours.
Urine (96%; 90% of total dose as unchanged drug);
Feces (0.5%)  Immediate release form = 3.5 hours;
Extended release form = 5.47 hours;  LD50, oral, mouse = 19 mg/kg
Denosumab | DrugBank Online Denosumab is a novel, fully human IgG2 monoclonal antibody specific to receptor activator of nuclear factor kappa-B ligand (RANKL), suppresses bone resorption markers in patients with a variety of metastatic tumors and is being investigated in multiple clinical trials for the prevention and treatment of bone metastases. Chemically, it consists of 2 heavy and 2 light chains. Each light chain consists of 215 amino acids. Each heavy chain consists of 448 amino acids with 4 intramolecular disulfides. FDA approved on June 1, 2010. Prolia is indicated for the treatment of postmenopausal women with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture. It reduces the incidence of vertebral, nonvertebral, and hip fractures. Prolia is also indicated as a treatment to increase bone mass in women at high risk for fracture receiving adjuvant aromatase inhibitor therapy for breast cancer. It can also be used in men with osteoporosis at high risk for fracture or in men receiving androgen deprivation therapy for nonmetastatic prostate cancer to increase bone mass. Xgeva is indicated for the prevention of skeletal-related events in patients with bone metastases from solid tumors. In clinical studies, treatment with 60 mg of Prolia resulted in reduction in the bone resorption marker serum type 1 C-telopeptide (CTX) by approximately 85% by 3 days. Consistent with the physiological coupling of bone formation and resorption in skeletal remodeling, subsequent reductions in bone formation markers (i.e. osteocalcin and procollagen type 1 N-terminal peptide [PlNP]) were observed starting 1 month after the first dose of Prolia. Denosumab is designed to target RANKL (RANK ligand), a protein that acts as the primary signal to promote bone removal/resorption. In many bone loss conditions, RANKL overwhelms the body's natural defense against bone destruction. Denosumab prevents RANKL from activating its receptor, RANK, on the surface of osteoclasts and their precursors. Prevention of the RANKL/RANK interaction inhibits osteoclast formation, function, and survival, thereby decreasing bone resorption and increasing bone mass and strength in both cortical and trabecular bone. When 60 mg of denosumab was subcutaneously administered to healthy subjects after fasting for 12 hours, the pharmacokinetic parameters are as follows:
Cmax = 6.75 mcg/mL;
Tmax= 10 days (range of 3 to 21 days);
AUC (0-16 weeks) = 316 mcg•day/mL.
Safinamide | DrugBank Online Safinamide is for the treatment of parkinson's disease. It was approved in Europe in February 2015, and in the United States on March 21, 2017. Safinamide is indicated as an add-on treatment to levodopa with or without other medicines for Parkinson’s disease Safinamide is a unique molecule with multiple mechanisms of action and a very high therapeutic index. It combines potent, selective, and reversible inhibition of MAO-B with blockade of voltage-dependent Na+ and Ca2+ channels and inhibition of glutamate release. Safinamide has neuroprotective and neurorescuing effects in MPTP-treated mice, in the rat kainic acid, and in the gerbil ischemia model. Rapid with peak plasma concentrations ranging from 2 to 4 h, total bioavailability is 95%. Food prolonged the rate and did not affect the extent of absorption of safinamide. 1.8 litres/kg 88–90% The principal step is mediated by amidases which have not been identified, and produces safinamide acid. It is also metabolized to O-debenzylated safinamide and N-delkylated amine. The N-dealkylated amine is then oxidized to a carboxylic acid and finally glucuronidated. Dealkylation reactions are mediated by cytochrome P450s (CYPs), especially CYP3A4. Safinamide acid binds to organic anion transporter 3 (OAT3), but no clinical relevance of this interaction has been determined. Safinamide also binds to ABCG2 transiently. No other transporter affinities have been found in preliminary studies. 76% renal, 1.5% faeces 22 h total oral clearance of plasma , which accounts for parent safinamide as well as metabolites, was on average only 17.53 ± 2.71 ml/h × kg uncontrolled involuntary movement, falls, nausea, and trouble sleeping or falling asleep (insomnia)
Belatacept | DrugBank Online Belatacept is a soluble fusion protein, which links the extracellular domain of human cytotoxic T-lymphocyte-associated antigen 4 (CTLA-4) to the modified Fc (hinge, CH2, and CH3 domains) portion of human immunoglobulin G1 (IgG1). Structurally, abatacept is a glycosylated fusion protein with a MALDI-MS molecular weight of 92,300 Da and it is a homodimer of two homologous polypeptide chains of 357 amino acids each. It is produced through recombinant DNA technology in mammalian CHO cells. The drug has activity as a selective co-stimulation modulator with inhibitory activity on T lymphocytes. It is approved for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Belatacept selectively blocks the process of T-cell activation. It was developed by Bristol-Myers-Squibb. Belatacept is only 2 amino acids different from abatacept (Orencia). FDA approved on June 15, 2011. For prophylaxis of organ rejection. It is also used concomitantly with basiliximumab for induction therapy, mycophenolate, and corticosteriods in kidney transplant recepients that are seropositive for the Epstein-Barr virus.  Belatacept binds to CD86 with a 4-fold higher affinity than abatacept. It also binds to CD80 with a 2-fold higher affinity than abatacept. It was observed in non-human primates that belatacept prolongs graft survival due to a decrease in antibody production against the donor organ. Furthermore, belatacept also inhibits the primary humoral immune response which is indicated by the decrease in post-transplant levels of IgG, IgM, and IgA. The magnitude of this effect is more significant in belatacept than it is in cyclosporine.  Belatacept is a fusion protein in which the Fc portion of human IgG1 is attached onto the extracellular portion of human CTLA-4 (CD152). Belatacept specifically binds to CD80 and CD86 receptors that are found on the antigen-presenting cell (B cells, macrophages, dendritic cells) to block selective T-cell lymphocyte costimulation. CD80 and CD86 would normally act as the ligands to the CD28 receptor T-cells in which this interaction triggers the activation of T lymphocytes. However in the presence of belatacept, because the extracellular CTLA-4 component binds to CD28 with higher affinity than CD80 or CD86, T lymphyocyte anergy, a state of antigen specific tolerance, occurs instead. The T cell is also no longer able to respond to their antigen.  Following multiple intravenous doses of an initial 10 mg/kg dose and followed by a maintenance dose of 5 mg/kg in kidney transplant recipients, these are the following pharmacokinetic parameters:
Cmax, 10 mg/kg = 247 µg/mL;
Cmax, 5 mg/kg = 139 µg/mL;
AUC, 10 mg/kg = 22,252 µg · h/mL;
AUC, 5 mg/kg = 14,090 µg · h/mL;
Belatacept had linear and dose-dependent pharmacokinetic profile.  Vd, steady state, transplant patients, 10 mg/kg = 0.11 L/kg;
Vd, steady state, transplant patients, 5 mg/kg = 0.12 L/kg The cytochrome P450 enzyme system or uridine diphosphate-glucuronosyltransferases are not expected to be involved with the metabolism of belatacept. Because the drug is a protein, belatacept is degraded into smaller peptides and amino acids by proteolytic enzymes.  Mean terminal elimination half-life:
10 mg/kg, kidney transplant recipients= 9.8 days;
5 mg/kg, kidney transplant recipient = 8.2 days  Increased body weight may increase the clearance rate of belatacept.
Mean systemic clearance:
10 mg/kg, kidney transplant recipients= 0.49 mL/h/kg;
Aprotinin | DrugBank Online Aprotinin is a protein-based drug that is also known as bovine pancreatic trypsin inhibitor (BPTI). Since it demonstrates the capacity to slow fibrinolysis, it has been employed to reduce bleeding during complex surgery such as heart and liver surgery. For this use, it is typically administered by injection. The goal of using of aprotinin was subsequently to minimize end-organ damage resulting from hypotension due to blood loss in surgery and to reduce the necessity for blood transfusions during surgery. Nevertheless, the drug was formally withdrawn worldwide in May of 2008 after studies confirmed that its use enhanced the risk of complications or death. The substance is consequently made available only for very restricted research use. For prophylactic use to reduce perioperative blood loss and the need for blood transfusion in patients undergoing cardiopulmonary bypass in the course of coronary artery bypass graft surgery who are at an increased risk for blood loss and blood transfusion. Aprotinin is a broad spectrum protease inhibitor which modulates the systemic inflammatory response (SIR) associated with cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) surgery. SIR results in the interrelated activation of the hemostatic, fibrinolytic, cellular and humoral inflammatory systems. Aprotinin, through its inhibition of multiple mediators [e.g., kallikrein, plasmin] results in the attenuation of inflammatory responses, fibrinolysis, and thrombin generation. Aprotinin inhibits pro-inflammatory cytokine release and maintains glycoprotein homeostasis. In platelets, aprotinin reduces glycoprotein loss (e.g., GpIb, GpIIb/IIIa), while in granulocytes it prevents the expression of pro-inflammatory adhesive glycoproteins (e.g., CD11b). The effects of aprotinin use in CPB involves a reduction in inflammatory response which translates into a decreased need for allogeneic blood transfusions, reduced bleeding, and decreased mediastinal re-exploration for bleeding. Aprotinin inhibits serine proteases including trypsin, chymotrypsin and plasmin at a concentration of about 125,000 IU/mL, and kallikrein at 300,000 IU/mL. The inhibition of kallikrein inhibits formation of factor XIIa. This inhibits the intrinsic pathway of coagulation and fibrinolysis. Inhibition of plasmin also slows fibrinolysis. 100% (IV) Aprotinin is slowly degraded by lysosomal enzymes. Following a single IV dose of radiolabelled aprotinin, approximately 25-40% of the radioactivity is excreted in the urine over 48 hours.
After a 30 minute infusion of 1 million KIU, about 2% is excreted as unchanged drug.
Arbekacin | DrugBank Online An semisynthetic aminoglycoside antibiotic. Often used for treatment of multi-resistant bacterial infection such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Amikacin is also nephrotoxic and ototoxic. Arbekacin is used for the short term treatment of multi-resistant bacterial infections, such as methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). Arbekacin is an aminoglycoside. Aminoglycosides function by binding to bacterial 30S ribosomal subunits, causing t-RNA misreads, and preventing the production of proteins. Anaerobes are less susceptible to aminoglycosides because they do not spend as much energy as aerobes on taking up chemicals like aminoglycosides. Aminoglycosides are useful primarily in infections involving aerobic, gram-negative bacteria, such as Pseudomonas, Acinetobacter, and Enterobacter. Arbekacin irreversibly binds bacterial 30S and 16S ribosomal subunits inhibiting protein synthesis. Arbekacin binds to 4 nucleotides of the 16S subunit and 1 amino acid of protein S12 to interfere with the decoding site around nucleotide 1400 in the 16S subunit. Interference with the decoding site interferes with its interaction with the wobble base of tRNA. This hindered interaction causes mRNA to be misread and the incorrect amino acids are inserted into protein. These error filled proteins are not able to function or may even be toxic. Aminoglycosides are not well absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Their absorption is markedly improved by parenteral administration. 3-12% 3 hours Patients with renal impairment or those taking ototoxic and nephrotoxic drugs are at the highest risk for ototoxicity and nephrotoxicity associated with aminoglycoside use.
Degarelix | DrugBank Online Degarelix is used for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer. Degarelix is a synthetic peptide derivative drug which binds to gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) receptors in the pituitary gland and blocks interaction with GnRH. This antagonism reduces luteinising hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH) which ultimately causes testosterone suppression. Reduction in testosterone is important in treating men with advanced prostate cancer. Chemically, it is a synthetic linear decapeptide amide with seven unnatural amino acids, five of which are D-amino acids. FDA approved on December 24, 2008. Degaralix is used for the management of advanced prostate cancer.  Degarelix is a synthetic derivative of GnRH decapeptide, the ligand of the GnRH receptor. Gonadotropin and androgen production result from the binding of endogenous GnRH to the GnRH receptor. Degarelix antagonizes the GnRH receptor which in turn blocks the release of LH and FSH from the pituitary. LF and FSH decreases in a concentration-dependent manner. The reduction in LH leads to a decrease in testosterone release from the testes.  Degarelix competitively inhibits GnRH receptors in the pituitary gland, preventing the release of luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle stimulating hormone. Reduced LH suppresses testosterone release, which slows the growth and reduces the size of prostate cancers. Degarelix forms a depot at the site of injection after subcutaneous administration from which the drug slowly released into circulation. After a single bolus dose of 2mg/kg, peak plasma concentrations of degarelix occured within 6 hours at a concentration of 330 ng/mL.
Ki = 0.082 ng/mL and 93% of receptors were fully suppressed;
MRT = 4.5 days.  Central compartment: 8.88 - 11.4 L;
Peripheral compartment: 40.9 L  90% of the drug is bound to plasma proteins. 70% - 80% of degarelix is subject to peptide hydrolysis during its passage through the hepatobiliary system and then fecally eliminated. No active or inactive metabolites or involvement of CYP450 isozymes.  Fecal (70% to 80%) and renal (20%-30% of unchanged drug)  Terminal half-life: 41.5 - 70.2 days;
Absorption half-life: 32.9 hours;
Fesoterodine | DrugBank Online Fesoterodine is an antimuscarinic prodrug for the treatment of overactive bladder syndrome. For the treatment of overactive bladder (with symptoms of urinary frequency, urgency, or urge incontinence). In-vivo the fesoteridine prodrug is broken down into its active metabolite, 5-hydroxymethyl tolterodine (5-HMT), by plasma esterases. The 5-hydroxymethyl metabolite, which exhibits an antimuscarinic activity. Both urinary bladder contraction and salivation are mediated via cholinergic muscarinic receptors. Therefore, acting as a competitive muscarinic receptor antagonist, fesoterodine ultimately acts to decrease the detrusor pressure by its muscarinic antagonism, thereby decreasing bladder contraction and consequently, the urge to urinate. Fesoterodine, once converted to its active metabolite, 5-hydroxymethyltolterodine, acts as a competitive antagonists at muscarinic receptors. This results in the inhibition of bladder contraction, decrease in detrusor pressure, and an incomplete emptying of the bladder. Tmax (5-HMT): 5 hours post-adminitration of fesoterodine.
AUC (0,∞)= 49.5 ng·h/ ml
Bioavailability, 5-HMT = 52%  IV, 5-HMT: 169 L  5-HMT: 50% to albumin and alpha1-acid glycoprotein  Metabolized by ubiquitous, nonspecific esterases to transform fesoterodine into 5-HMT
Extensive metabolism via CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 into inactive metabolites  Renal: 70% of fesoterodine was recovered in urine as 5-HMT; 35% carboxy metabolite; 18% carboxy-N-desisopropylmetabolite, and 1% N-desisopropyl metabolite
Fecal: 7%
Hepatic: fesoterodine elimination via CYP2D6 and CYP3A4 7-8 hours for the active metabolite 5-hydroxymethyl tolterodine  5-HMT, healthy subjects: 14.4 L/h
5-HMT is also secreted into the nephron.  Rat, Oral, LD50: ~ 681 mg/kg
Mouse, Oral, LD50: ~ 316 mg/kg
Rat, Intravenous, NOAEL: 10 mg/kg
Gadobutrol | DrugBank Online Intravenous gadobutrol is a second-generation extracellular non-ionic macrocyclic GBCA (gadolinium-based contrast agent) used in magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in adults and children older than 2 years of age. It may help visualize and detect vascular abnormalities in the blood brain barrier (BBB) and central nervous system (CNS).  In patients with impaired renal function, gadolinium based contrast agents increase the risk of nephrogenic systemic fibrosis (NSF). A physician should be contacted if symptoms of NSF are encountered, such as dark or red patches on the skin; stiffness in joints; trouble moving, bending or straightening arms, hands, legs or feet; burning, itching, swelling, scaling, hardening and tightening of skin; pain in hip bones or ribs; or muscle weakness.  Common adverse reactions that may be experienced include headache, nausea, feeling hot, abnormal taste, and warmth, burning or pain local to the injection site.  General precautions should be taken in patients who are pregnant or breastfeeding, or who have a history of allergic reaction to contrast media, bronchial asthma or an allergic respiratory disorder. For diagnostic use only. Indicated for adults and children age 2 and over for contrast enhancement during cranial and spinal MRI, and for contrast-enhanced magnetic resonance angiography (CE-MRA). Gadobutrol is particularly suited for the detection of very small lesions and for the visualization of tumors that do not readily take up contrast media. It may be a desired agent when the exclusion or demonstration of an additional pathology may influence the choice of therapy or patient management. It may also be suitable for perfusion studies in the diagnosis of stroke, detection of focal cerebral ischemia, and in studies of tumor perfusion.  Even at low concentrations Gadobutrol can lead to distinct shortening of relaxation times of protons in plasma. At physiological conditions (pH=7, temperature=37°C), and 1.5T, the relaxivity (r1) is 5.2L/(mmol·sec) based on the relaxation times (T1), while the relativity (r2) is 6.1L/(mmol·sec) based on relaxation times (T2).  Magnetic field strength has only slight influence on relaxivities.  Drug concentration and r1 relaxivity may contribute to a T1 shortening effect, which may improve tissue visualization.  MRI tissue visualization is dependent, in part, on variations in intensity of radiofrequency signals which occur due to differences in proton density, differences of the spin-lattice or longitudinal relaxation times (T1), and differences in the spin-spin or transverse relaxation times (T2). Gadolinium shortens T1 and T2 relaxation times. Greater signal enhancement is achieved with increased shortening of T1 and T2. The extent to which Gadolinium can shorten T1 and T2 is influenced by concentration in tissue, MRI field strength, and the relative ratio of transverse and longitudinal relaxation times.  The recommended dose produced the greatest sensitivity of T1 shortening effect in T1-weighted magnetic resonance sequences.
In T2-weighted sequences, the large magnetic moment of gadolinium induced local magnetic field inhomogenenities.  At high concentrations used during bolus injections, T2-weighted sequences show a signal decrease.  With normal renal function, the AUC is 1.1 ± 0.1 mmol·h/L.  Rapid distribution to extracellular space occurs after intravenous administration.  After a dose of 0.1mmol/kg body weight, an average plasma level of 0.59 mmol/L was measured 2 minutes post injection, and 0.3mmol/L 60 minutes post injection.  No particular protein binding is displayed. Gadobutrol is not metabolized.  Excreted unchanged via glomerular filtration by the kidneys.
Extrarenal elimination is negligible.  1.81 hours (1.33-2.13 hours).  In healthy subjects, renal clearance is 1.1 - 1.7mL/(min·kg).
Within 2 hours of intravenous injection more than 50% is eliminated via the urine. Within 12 hours more than 90% of the given dose is eliminated.  Clearance was observed to be slightly lower in elderly subjects, when using a 0.1mmol/kg dose.  In the pediatric population, the median AUC, clearance and elimination half life was observed to be similar across the age range of 2-17, based on a population pharmacokinetic analysis of 130 pediatric subjects aged 2-17. In children aged 2-6 (n=45) the median AUC of gadobutrol was 0.8 mmol·h/L, the median clearance was 0.13L/hr/kg, and the median elimination half life was 1.75h. In children aged 7-11 (n=39) the median AUC of gadobutrol was 1.0 mmol·h/L, the median clearance was 0.1L/hr/kg, and the median elimination half life was 1.61h. In children aged 12-17 (n=46) the median AUC of gadobutrol was 1.2 mmol·h/L, the median clearance was 0.09 L/hr/kg, and the median elimination half life was 1.65h.
Approximately 99% (median value) of the dose was recovered in the urine after 6 hours.  A prolonged serum half life of gadobutrol is correlated with a reduction in creatinine clearance. In patients with mild-moderate renal impairment (80>CLCR>30 mL/min) the elimination half life was 5.8 ± 2.4 hours, the AUC was 4.0 ± 1.8 mmol·h/L, and complete recovery from the urine is seen within 72 hours.
In patients with severe renal impairment (CLCR<30 mL/min) the elimination half life was 17.6 ± 6.2 hours, the AUC was 11.5 ± 4.3 mmol·h/L, and complete recovery from the urine is seen within 5 days.
Physicians may consider the prompt initiation of hemodialysis following gadobutrol administration to aid elimination, in patients who are already receiving hemodialysis. After one dialysis session 68% of the initial dose is removed, after the second session 94%, and after the third session 98%.  Lethality was observed in rodents after a single intravenous administration of 20 mmol/kg. This represents a dose of at least 2 orders of magnitude
Iobenguane | DrugBank Online Synthetic guanethidine derivative that locates phaeochromocytomas and neuroblastomas. The radioisotope used can either be iodine-123 for imaging or iodine-131 for destruction of tissues that metabolize noradrenaline. Iodine 123 is a cyclotron-produced radionuclide that decays to Te 123 by electron capture. Images are produced by a I123 MIBG scintigraphy. FDA approved on September 19, 2008. Detection of primary and metastatic pheochromocytoma or neuroblastoma  AdreView is a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical which contains a small quantity of iobenguane that is not expected to produce a pharmacodynamic effect. Patients with renal insufficiency may experience increased radiation exposure and impaired imaging results.  Structure of iobenguane is similar to noradrenaline so it can be taken up by adrenergic tissue in the adrenal medulla, liver, heart, and spleen. Once taken up by noradrenaline transporters in the adrenergic nerve terminals, it is stored in the presynaptic storage vesicles. The radioactive iodine component is responsible for its imaging properties.  Iobenguane rapidly clears from the blood and is highly retained in adrenergic tissues.  Less than 10% of the dose is metabolized into m-iodohippuric acid (MIHA). However the mechanism in which this metabolite is produced is unknown.  Renally excreted unchanged (70%-90%) via glomerular filtration;
Fecal (<1%)  Physical half life = 13.2 hours  Oral mouse: LD50 = 300 mg/kg;
Oral, rabbit: LD50 = 3200 mg/kg;
Oral, rat: LD50=980 mg/kg.
Isometheptene | DrugBank Online Isometheptene is a sympathomimetic drug which causes vasoconstriction. It is used for treating migraines and tension headaches. Isometheptene is a sympathomimetic drug which causes vasoconstriction. It is used for treating migraines and tension headaches. Isometheptene Mucate is an indirect-acting sympathomimetic. Due to its vasoconstricting properties, Isometheptene Mucate is used for the treatment of acute migraine attacks, usually in combination with other analgeics. It can also displace catecholamines from vesicles inside the neuron leading to the sympathetic responses it is known for. Isometheptene's vasoconstricting properties arise through activation of the sympathetic nervous system via epinephrine and norepinephrine (or their molecular analogues as is the case with this drug). These compounds elicites smooth muscle activation leading to vasoconstriction. These compounds interact with cell surface adrenergic receptors. Such stimuli result in a signal transduction cascade that leads to increased intracellular calcium from the sarcoplasmic reticulum through IP3 mediated calcium release, as well as enhanced calcium entry across the sarcolemma through calcium channels. The rise in intracellular calcium complexes with calmodulin, which in turn activates myosin light chain kinase. This enzyme is responsible for phosphorylating the light chain of myosin to stimulate cross bridge cycling. Once elevated, the intracellular calcium concentration is returned to its basal level through a variety of protein pumps and calcium exchangers located on the plasma membrane and sarcoplasmic reticulum. This reduction in calcium removes the stimulus necessary for contraction allowing for a return to baseline. The drug can also cause vesicular displacement of noradrenaline from the neuron into the synapse with a similar effect as tyramine. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. U.S. Patent 2,230,753
Methyltestosterone | DrugBank Online A synthetic anabolic steroid used for treating men with testosterone deficiency or similar androgen replacement therapies. Also, has antineoplastic properties and so has been used secondarily in women with advanced breast cancer. Methyltestosterone is a schedule III drug in the US. Methyltestosterone is an anabolic steroid hormone used to treat men with a testosterone deficiency. It is also used in women to treat breast cancer, breast pain, swelling due to pregnancy, and with the addition of estrogen it can treat symptoms of menopause. Testosterone is a steroid hormone from the androgen group. Testosterone is primarily secreted from the testes of males. In females, it is produced in the ovaries, adrenal glands and by conversion of adrostenedione in the periphery. It is the principal male sex hormone and an anabolic steroid. In both males and females, it plays key roles in health and well-being. Examples include enhanced libido, energy, immune function, and protection against osteoporosis. On average, the adult male body produces about twenty times the amount of testosterone than an adult female's body does. The effects of testosterone in humans and other vertebrates occur by way of two main mechanisms: by activation of the androgen receptor (directly or as DHT), and by conversion to estradiol and activation of certain estrogen receptors. Free testosterone (T) is transported into the cytoplasm of target tissue cells, where it can bind to the androgen receptor, or can be reduced to 5α-dihydrotestosterone (DHT) by the cytoplasmic enzyme 5α-reductase. DHT binds to the same androgen receptor even more strongly than T, so that its androgenic potency is about 2.5 times that of T. The T-receptor or DHT-receptor complex undergoes a structural change that allows it to move into the cell nucleus and bind directly to specific nucleotide sequences of the chromosomal DNA. The areas of binding are called hormone response elements (HREs), and influence transcriptional activity of certain genes, producing the androgen effects. The methyl group aids to increase oral bioavailability. 40% of testosterone in plasma is bound to sex hormone-binding globulin and 2% remains unbound and the rest is bound to albumin and other proteins. Hepatic.
Fospropofol | DrugBank Online Fospropofol is a water soluble prodrug and is converted to propofol in the liver. Fospropofol is a short acting hypnotic/sedative/anesthetic agent. Unlike propofol, does not cause injection-site pain as it is unable to activate TRPA1. FDA approved in December 2008.
Fospropofol is a Schedule IV controlled substance in the United States under the Controlled Substances Act. For monitored anaesthesia care sedation in patients undergoing diagnostic procedures like bronchoscopy and colonscopy or minor surgical procedures like arthroscopy and bunionectomy.  Fospropofol is a prodrug of propofol, a sedative hypnotic drug. Unlike propofol, fospropofol is water soluble and can be administered in an aqueous solution. 1.86 mg of fospropofol is the molar equivalent for 1mg of propofol.  After in-vivo conversion of fospropofol into propofol by endothelial alkaline phosphatase, propofol crosses the blood-brain barrier, binds to GABA-A receptors and acts as an agonist. By binding to GABA-A receptor, it will cause an increase in chloride conductance, thus inhibiting the firing of new action potentials in the post-synaptic neuron.  Adequate sedation achieved after 7 minutes with a IV bolus dose of 10mg/kg. It takes 21-45 minutes for patients to recover for fospropopol-induced sedation. Following an intravenous bolus administration of 6 mg/kg in a healthy subject, the pharmacokinetic parameters of fospropofol are as follows:
Cmax = 78.7 μg/mL;
Tmax = 4 minutes;
AUC(0-∞) = 19.0 μg ⋅ h/mL;  Fospropofol = 0.33±0.069 L/kg;
Propofol metabolite = 5.8 L/kg.  Both fospropofol and its active metabolite propofol are highly protein bound (approximately 98%), primarily to albumin. Fospropofol does not affect the binding of propofol to albumin.  Fospropofol is metabolized into propofol, formaldehyde, and phosphate by endothelial alkaline phosphatase. The metabolite, formaldehyde, is quickly oxidized into formic acid by glutathione dependent and independent dehydrogenases and erythrocytes. Excess formic acid is eliminated via oxidation to carbon dioxide through the tetrahydrofolate pathway. Propofol is further metabolized into propofol glucuronide, quinol-4-sulfate, quinol-1-fluronide, and quinol-4-glucuronide. The cytochrome P450 enzyme system is not involved with the metabolism of fospropofol.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Chiefly eliminated by hepatic conjugation to inactive metabolites which are excreted by the kidney. There is negligible renal elimination of unchanged fospropofol (<0.02%).  When given to a patient, the half-lives are as follows:
Fospropofol = 0.81 hours;
Propofol metabolite = 1.13 hours  Total body clearance (CLp), Fospropofol, healthy subject = 0.28 L/h/kg;
CLp, fospropofol, patients = 0.31 L/h/kg;
Fosaprepitant | DrugBank Online Fosaprepitant is an intravenously administered antiemetic drug. It is a prodrug of Aprepitant. It aids in the prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with chemotherapy treatment. For the prevention of nausea and vomiting associated with highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. Fosaprepitant is a prodrug of Aprepitant. Once biologically activated, the drug acts as a substance P/neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptor antagonist which, in combination with other antiemetic agents, is indicated for the prevention of acute and delayed nausea and vomiting associated with initial and repeat courses of highly emetogenic cancer chemotherapy. Aprepitant is a selective high-affinity antagonist of human substance P/neurokinin 1 (NK1) receptors. Aprepitant has little or no affinity for serotonin (5-HT3), dopamine, and corticosteroid receptors, the targets of existing therapies for chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CI NV). Aprepitant has been shown in animal models to inhibit emesis induced by cytotoxic chemotherapeutic agents, such as cisplatin, via central actions. Animal and human Positron Emission Tomography (PET) studies with Aprepitant have shown that it crosses the blood brain barrier and occupies brain NK1 receptors. Animal and human studies show that Aprepitant augments the antiemetic activity of the 5-HT3-receptor antagonist ondansetron and the corticosteroid
ethasone and inhibits both the acute and delayed phases of cisplatin induced emesis.
Buserelin | DrugBank Online Buserelin is a synthetic peptide analog of the luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist, which stimulates the pituitary gland's gonadotrophin-releasing hormone receptor (GnRHR). It is used in prostate cancer treatment. Buserelin may be used in the treatment of hormone-responsive cancers such as prostate cancer or breast cancer, estrogen-dependent conditions (such as endometriosis or uterine fibroids), and in assisted reproduction. The substitution of glycine in position 6 by D-serine, and that of glycinamide in position 10 by ethylamide, leads to a nonapeptide with a greatly enhanced LHRH effect. The effects of buserelin on FSH and LH release are 20 to 170 times greater than those of LHRH. Buserelin also has a longer duration of action than natural LHRH. Investigations in healthy adult males and females have demonstrated that the increase in plasma LH and FSH levels persist for at least 7 hours and that a return to basal values requires about 24 hours.
Calcium carbonate | DrugBank Online Calcium carbonate is an inorganic salt used as an antacid. It is a basic compound that acts by neutralizing hydrochloric acid in gastric secretions. Subsequent increases in pH may inhibit the action of pepsin. An increase in bicarbonate ions and prostaglandins may also confer cytoprotective effects. Calcium carbonate may also be used as a nutritional supplement or to treat hypocalcemia. For relief of heartburn and acid indigestion. May also be used as a nutritional supplement or to treat hypocalcemia.  Gastric-peptic disease occurs as a result of an imbalance between protective factors, such as mucus, bicarbonate, and prostaglandin secretion, and aggressive factors, such as hydrochloric acid, pepsin, and Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori). Antacids work by restoring acid-base balance, attenuating the pepsin activity and increasing bicarbonate and prostaglandin secretion. The acid-neutralizing capacity of calcium carbonate is 58 mEq/15 ml.
Ketobemidone | DrugBank Online Ketobemidone is a powerful opioid analgesic. It also has some NMDA-antagonist properties. This makes it useful for some types of pain that don't respond well to other opioids. The most commonly cited equalisation ratio for analgesic doses is 25 mg of ketobemidone hydrobromide to 60 mg of morphine hydrochloride or sulfate and circa 8 mg of ketobemidone by injection. For the treatment of all types of severe pain, such as postoperative, cancer, kidney stones and fractures. Ketobemidone (Cliradon, Ketogan, Ketodur, Cymidon, Ketorax, &c.) is a powerful opioid analgesic. It also has some NMDA-antagonist properties. This makes it useful for some types of pain that don't respond well to other opioids. The most commonly cited equalisation ratio for analgesic doses is 25 mg of ketobemidone hydrobromide to 60 mg of morphine hydrochloride or sulfate and circa 8 mg of ketobemidone by injection. 34% (oral), 44% (rectal) Ketobemidone is mainly metabolised by conjugation of the phenolic hydroxyl group, and by N-desmethylation. Only about 13-24% is excreted unchanged after iv. administration. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Plasma half-life: 2.42 +/- 0.41 h (m +/- SD).
Elimination half-life: 3.27 +/- 0.32 h Base: Rat Intravenous LD50: 10 mg/kg; Mouse Intravenous LD50: 14 mg/kg.
Ambroxol | DrugBank Online Ambroxol is a secretolytic agent used in the treatment of respiratory diseases associated with viscid or excessive mucus. It is the active ingredient of Mucosolvan, Lasolvan or Mucoangin. The substance is a mucoactive drug with several properties including secretolytic and secretomotoric actions that restore the physiological clearance mechanisms of the respiratory tract which play an important role in the body’s natural defence mechanisms. It stimulates synthesis and release of surfactant by type II pneumocytes. Surfactants acts as an anti-glue factor by reducing the adhesion of mucus to the bronchial wall, in improving its transport and in providing protection against infection and irritating agents. Ambroxol is indicated for secretolytic therapy in bronchoplmonary diseaes with abnormal mucus secretion and transport. It allows the mucus to be more easily cleared and ease a patient's breathing. Ambroxol is a mucolytic agent. Excessive Nitric oxide (NO) is associated with inflammatory and some other disturbances of airways function. NO enhances the activation of soluble guanylate cyclase and cGMP accumulation. Ambroxol has been shown to inhibit the NO-dependent activation of soluble guanylate cyclase. It is also possible that the inhibition of NO-dependent activation of soluble guanylate cyclase can suppress the excessive mucus secretion, therefore it lowers the phlegm viscosity and improves the mucociliary transport of bronchial secretions. Rapid and almost complete. Approximately 90% 7-12 hours Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Kack, J., Koss, F.W., Schraven, E. and Beisenherz, G.; US. Patent 3,536,713; October 27,
Fomivirsen | DrugBank Online Fomivirsen is a antisense 21 mer phosphorothioate oligonucleotide. It is an antiviral agent that was used in the treatment of cytomegalovirus retinitis (CMV) in immunocompromised patients, including those with AIDS. As a complementary nucleotide to the messenger RNA of the major immediate-early region proteins of human cytomegalovirus, it disrupts the replication of the virus through an antisense mechanism 6. It was discovered by scientists at the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and was first developed by Isis Pharmaceuticals and subsequently licensed to Novartis 3. The drug was withdrawn by the FDA because while there was a high unmet need for drugs to treat CMV when the drug was initially discovered and developed due to the CMV arising in people with AIDS, the development of HAART dramatically reduced the number of cases of CMV. Fomivirsen is marketed under the trade name Vitravene for intravitreal injection and was the first antisense drug to be approved by the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Indicated for the local treatment of cytomegalovirus (CMV) retinitis in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS), when other therapy has been ineffective or is considered unsuitable Label,6. Fomivirsen is an antiviral agent that inhibits CMV replication in a dose-dependent manner with a mean 50% inhibitory concentration between 0.03 and 0.2 μM in a number of in vitro cell lines 2. In human fibroblast cell lines, the median effective inhibitory concentration (EC50) of fomivirsen for virus antigen production was approximately 0.34±0.25 μM 6. In a clinical trial, administration of fomivirsen in patients with newly diagnosed CMV retinitis resulted in an increased median time to disease progression in the immediate treatment group versus delayed treatment group 6. Fomivirsen is a phosphorothioate oligonucleotide that inhibits the replication of human cytomegalovirus (HCMV) through an antisense mechanism. The nucleotide sequence is complementary to a sequence in mRNA transcripts of the major immediate early region 2 (IE2) of human CMV, which encodes several proteins responsible for regulation of viral gene expression that are essential for viral replication 6. The IE2 gene is essential for early viral gene expression and viral replication 4; it was shown that the IE2 gene transactivate most human CMV promoters 5. Protein product from the IE2 region also acts as autorepressor that represses transcription of the IE1 and IE2 genes by binding the cis repression sequence (CRS) 4. It is proposed that the IE2 region interacts with multiple basal and general transcription factors, as well as cell cycle regulators, and it also plays a critical role in controlling the entry of the virus into the lytic cycle from the latent state to further potentiate the infection cascade 5. Upon binding to the target mRNA, fomivirsen inhibits the IE2 protein synthesis and disrupts viral replication 6.  Following intravitreal injection in rabbits and monkeys, peak concentrations in the vitreous was detectable immediately after injection with the concentrations increasing in a dose-proportional manner 6. Due to low doses of intravitreal administration with slow disposition from the eye, there is limited absorption of the drug into the systemic circulation 1. Fomivirsen is detectable in retina of rabbits within hours following administration and concentrations increase over 3 to 5 days. The concentrations of the drug were highest in the retina and iris Label.  Preclinical studies show that fomivirsen distributes to retina 1. Fomivirsen is approximately 40% bound to proteins according to the analysis of vitreous samples from treated rabbits and monkeys Label. It is mostly bound to albumin and alpha2-macroglobulin in blood plasma 1.  Fomivirsen undergoes metabolism mediated by endo- and exonuclease, where the resides from the terminal ends of the oligonucleotide are sequentially removed Label,6. Resulting shortened oligonucleotides and mononucleotide metabolites can be detected in the retina and vitreous of animals Label. Mononucleotides may also be further catabolized to endogenous nucleotides and excreted as low molecular weight metabolites Label. In rabbits, 16% of total radiolabelled fomivirsen was detected in urine and 3% was detected in feces Label. Intravitreal drug clearance studies have revealed first-order kinetics 2. Following intravitreal administration, fomivirsen is slowly cleared from vitreous with a half-life of approximately 55 hours in humans 1. The half life from retina in monkeys following administration of 115 mcg fomivirsen is estimated to be 78 hours 1. Clearance from retina was shown to be similarly slow following loading from the vitreous 1. There has been one case of accidental overdose of fomivirsen with administration once bilaterally with 990 μg per eye; vision was restored with anterior chamber paracentesis performed bilaterally 6.
Ammonium chloride | DrugBank Online Ammonium chloride is an inorganic compound with the formula NH4Cl. It is highly soluble in water producing mildly acidic solutions. Systemic acidifier. In liver ammonium chloride is converted into urea with the liberation of hydrogen ions ( which lowers the pH) and chloride.  Ammonium chloride increases acidity by increasing the amount of hydrogen ion concentrations. Ammonium chloride can be used as an expectorant due to its irritative action on the bronchial mucosa. This effect causes the production of respiratory tract fluid which in order facilitates the effective cough. Completely absorbed within 3–6 h. In healthy persons, absorption of ammonium chloride given by mouth was practically complete. Only 1 to 3% of the dose was recovered in the feces. Data not found.  Data not found.  Ammonium ion is converted to urea in the liver; chloride ion replaces bicarbonate. Excretion: Urine Unknown  Data not found.  LD50 "Rat" after oral administration is: 1650 mg/kg.
Overdosage of Ammonium Chloride has resulted in a serious degree of metabolic acidosis, disorientation, confusion and coma. If metabolic acidosis occur following overdosage, the administration of an alkalinizing solution such as sodium bicarbonate or sodium lactate will serve to correct the acidosis. Patients administering Ammonium chloride should be watched to the signs of ammonia toxicity including (pallor, sweating, irregular breathing, bradycardia, cardiac arrhythmias, local and general twitching, tonic convulsions and coma).
It should be used with caution in patients with high total CO2 and buffer base secondary to primary respiratory acidosis.
Bendamustine | DrugBank Online Bendamustine is a nitrogen mustard drug indicated for use in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) that has progressed during or within six months of treatment with rituximab or a rituximab-containing regimen. Bendamustine is a bifunctional mechlorethamine derivative capable of forming electrophilic alkyl groups that covalently bond to other molecules. Through this function as an alkylating agent, bendamustine causes intra- and inter-strand crosslinks between DNA bases resulting in cell death. It is active against both active and quiescent cells, although the exact mechanism of action is unknown. Bendamustine is indicated for use in the treatment of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) and indolent B-cell non-Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) that has progressed during or within six months of treatment with rituximab or a rituximab-containing regimen. No mean changes in QTc interval greater than 20 milliseconds were detected up to one hour post-infusion. Bendamustine is a bifunctional mechlorethamine derivative capable of forming electrophilic alkyl groups that covalently bond to other molecules. Through this function as an alkylating agent, bendamustine causes intra- and inter-strand crosslinks between DNA bases resulting in cell death. It is active against both active and quiescent cells, although the exact mechanism of action is unknown.  Following a single IV dose of bendamustine hydrochloride Cmax typically occurred at the end of infusion. The dose proportionality of bendamustine has not been studied. The mean steady-state volume of distribution (Vss) of bendamustine was approximately 20-25 L. Steady-state volume of distribution for total radioactivity was approximately 50 L, indicating that neither bendamustine nor total radioactivity are extensively distributed into the tissues. In vitro, the binding of bendamustine to human serum plasma proteins ranged from 94-96% and data suggest that bendamustine is not likely to displace or to be displaced by highly protein-bound drugs. In vitro data indicate that bendamustine is primarily metabolized via hydrolysis to monohydroxy (HP1) and dihydroxy-bendamustine (HP2) metabolites with low cytotoxic activity. Two active minor metabolites, M3 and M4, are primarily formed via CYP1A2. However, concentrations of these metabolites in plasma are 1/10th and 1/100th that of the parent compound, respectively, suggesting that the cytotoxic activity is primarily due to bendamustine. Results of a human mass balance study confirm that bendamustine is extensively metabolized via hydrolytic, oxidative, and conjugative pathways. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Mean recovery of total radioactivity in cancer patients following IV infusion of [14C] bendamustine hydrochloride was approximately 76% of the dose. Approximately 50% of the dose was recovered in the urine and approximately 25% of the dose was recovered in the feces. Urinary excretion was confirmed as a relatively minor pathway of elimination of bendamustine, with approximately 3.3% of the dose recovered in the urine as parent. Less than 1% of the dose was recovered in the urine as M3 and M4, and less than 5% of the dose was recovered in the urine as HP2. 40 minutes 700 mL/min Risk for tumor-lysis syndrome.
Discontinue use in the event of severe/progressive skin reactions.
Hematologic malignancies of different forms reported.
Discontinue use in the case of severe infusion reactions.
May cause extravasation.
Mild to moderate renal impairment.
Mild hepatic impairment.
Sepsis (infections) may occur.
Avoid use if pregnant.
Benzyl alcohol | DrugBank Online Ulesfia (benzyl alcohol) lotion is indicated for the topical treatment of head lice infestation in patients 6 months of age and older. Ulesfia Lotion does not have ovicidal activity. Benzyl alcohol inhibits lice from closing their respiratory spiracles, allowing the vehicle to obstruct the spiracles and causing the lice to asphyxiate. 1250 mg/kg (rat, oral) LD50
400 mg/kg IPR-RAT LD50
2000 mg/kg SKN-RBT LD50
53 mg/kg IVN-RAT LD50
Cabazitaxel | DrugBank Online Cabazitaxel is an anti-neoplastic used with the steroid medicine prednisone. Cabazitaxel is used to treat people with prostate cancer that has progressed despite treatment with docetaxel. Cabazitaxel is prepared by semi-synthesis with a precursor extracted from yew needles (10-deacetylbaccatin III). It was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on June 17, 2010. For treatment of patients with hormone-refractory metastatic prostate cancer previously treated with a docetaxel-containing treatment regimen. Cabaitaxel has anti-tumour properties and is effective against docetaxel-sensitive and -insensitive tumours.  Cabazitaxel is a microtubule inhibitor. Cabazitaxel binds to tubulin and promotes its assembly into microtubules while simultaneously inhibiting disassembly. This leads to the stabilization of microtubules, which results in the interference of mitotic and interphase cellular functions. The cell is then unable to progress further into the cell cycle, being stalled at metaphase, thus triggering apoptosis of the cancer cell.  After an intravenous dose of cabazitaxel 25 mg/m2 every three weeks to a population of 170 patients with solid tumors, the mean Cmax in patients with metastatic prostate cancer was 226 ng/mL (CV 107%) and was reached at the end of the one-hour infusion (Tmax). The mean AUC in patients with metastatic prostate cancer was 991 ng.h/mL (CV 34%). Administration with prednisone or prednisolone do not effect the pharmacokinetic profile of cabazitaxel.  The volume of distribution (Vss) was 4,864 L (2,643 L/m2 for a patient with a median BSA of 1.84 m2) at steady state. Compared to other taxanes, penetrates the CNS to a greater extent.  Cabazitaxel is mainly bound to human serum albumin (82%) and lipoproteins (88% for HDL, 70% for LDL, and 56% for VLDL). Cabazitaxel is extensively metabolized in the liver (>95%), mainly by the CYP3A4/5 isoenzyme (80% to 90%), and to a lesser extent by CYP2C8 which results in 20 different metabolites. Two of these metabolites are active demethylated derivatives of cabaxitaxel and referred to as RPR112698 and RPR123142 respectively. Docetaxel is another metabolite of cabazitaxel. Cabazitaxel is the main circulating moiety in human plasma. Hover over products below to view reaction partners After a one-hour intravenous infusion [14C]-cabazitaxel 25 mg/m2, approximately 80% of the administered dose was eliminated within 2 weeks. Cabazitaxel is mainly excreted in the feces as numerous metabolites (76% of the dose); while renal excretion of cabazitaxel and metabolites account for 3.7% of the dose (2.3% as unchanged drug in urine). Following a one-hour intravenous infusion, plasma concentrations of cabazitaxel can be described by a three-compartment pharmacokinetic model with α-, β-, and γ- half-lives of 4 minutes, 2 hours, and 95 hours, respectively. Cabazitaxel has a plasma clearance of 48.5 L/h (CV 39%; 26.4 L/h/m2 for a patient with a median BSA of 1.84 m2) in patients with metastatic prostate cancer. Cabazitaxel may cause serious side effects including neutropenia, hypersensitivity reactions, gastrointestinal symptoms, and renal failure. Anticipated complications of overdose include exacerbation of adverse reactions such as bone marrow suppression and gastrointestinal disorders. Cabazitaxel penetrates the blood-brain barrier.
Carglumic acid | DrugBank Online Carglumic acid is a drug used for the treatment of hyperammonemia in patients with a deficiency in N-acetyl glutamate synthase. This rare genetic disorder results in elevated blood levels of ammonia, which can eventually cross the blood–brain barrier and cause neurologic problems, cerebral edema, coma, and death. Carglumic acid was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) on 18 March 2010. For the treatment of acute and chronic hyperammonaemia in patients with N-acetylglutamate synthase (NAGS) deficiency. This enzyme is an important component of the urea cycle to prevent build up of neurotoxic ammonium in the blood.  The median Tmax of Carbaglu was 3 hours (range: 2-4). The daily dose of carglumic acid ranges from 100 to 250 mg/kg and this does are normally adjusted to maintain normal plasma levels of ammonia. Carglumic acid is a synthetic structural analogue of N-acetylglutamate (NAG), which is an essential allosteric activator of the liver enzyme carbamoyl phosphate synthetase 1 (CPS1). CPS1 is found in the mitochondria and is the first enzyme of the urea cycle, which converts ammonia into urea. Carglumic acid acts as a replacement for NAG in NAGS deficiency patients by activating CPS1 but it does not help to regulate the urea cycle. 30% bioavailability;
Cmax, mean, 100 mg/kg dose = 2.6 μg/mL (range of 1.9 - 4.8)
Cupric sulfate | DrugBank Online Cupric sulfate is a salt created by treating cupric oxide with sulfuric acid. This forms as large, bright blue crystals containing five molecules of water (CuSO4∙5H2O) and is also known as blue vitriol. The anhydrous salt is created by heating the hydrate to 150 °C (300 °F). Cupric sulfate is used primarily for agricultural purposes, as a pesticide, germicide, feed additive, and soil additive. Some of its secondary uses are as a raw material in the preparation of other copper compounds, as a reagent in analytic chemistry, as an electrolyte for batteries and electroplating baths, and in medical practice as a locally applied fungicide, bactericide, and astringent 9. Copper is an essential trace element and an important catalyst for heme synthesis and iron absorption. After zinc and iron, copper is the third most abundant trace element found in the human body. Copper is a noble metal and its properties include high thermal and electrical conductivity, low corrosion, alloying ability, and malleability. Copper is a component of intrauterine contraceptive devices (IUD) and the release of copper is necessary for their important contraceptive effects. The average daily intake of copper in the USA is approximately 1 mg Cu with the diet being a primary source 5. Interestingly, the dysregulation of copper has been studied with a focus on neurodegenerative diseases, such as Wilson’s disease, Alzheimer’s disease, and Parkinson’s disease. Data from clinical observations of the neurotoxic effects of copper may provide the basis for future treatments affecting copper and its homeostasis 15. Elemental use in copper deficiency 11 Copper and copper containing compounds are broadly used in medical practice. Metallic copper is used already for many years in dental fillings and in copper intrauterine devices (IUD) for reversible contraception. Ointments containing copper, which release copper ions that are absorbed by the skin in the management of cramps, disturbances of renal function, peripheral, venous hypostatic circulatory disturbances, rheumatic disease and swelling associated with trauma. There are also cosmetic facial creams containing copper as their main active ingredient 13. Copper is an essential mineral that plays a key role in many physiological processes, including angiogenesis, skin generation and expression and stabilization of skin proteins. Copper is found naturally in many food sources including meats, vegetables, and grains. Copper has potent biocidal properties and is used to eliminate bacteria, viruses and parasites 13, 17. Copper is one of the nine essential minerals for humans, as it plays an imperative role in various physiological pathways in basically all human tissue, as well as in the health of the dermis and epidermis 13. In addition to the above, copper is essential in wound healing, as it promotes angiogenesis and skin extracellular matrix formation and stabilization 13. This drug is an essential trace element for the functioning of many metalloenzymes including ceruloplasmin, ferroxidase II, lysyl oxidase, monoamine oxidase, Zn-copper superoxide dismutase, tyrosinase, dopamine-β-hydroxylase, and cytochrome-c-oxidase. It is involved in erythropoiesis & leukopoiesis, bone mineralization, elastin and collagen cross-linking, oxidative phosphorylation, catecholamine metabolism, melanin formation & antioxidant protection of cells 13. Cupric sulfate may also have a role in iron turnover, ascorbic acid metabolism, phospholipid metabolism, myelin formation, glucose homeostasis, and cellular immune defense 11. After the metal passes through the basolateral membrane it is transported to the liver, attached to serum albumin. The liver is the critical organ for the homeostasis of copper. The copper is then prepared for excretion through the bile or incorporation into various proteins. The transport of copper to the peripheral tissues is accomplished through the plasma attached to serum albumin, ceruloplasmin or low-molecular-weight complexes 14. In the dermis, copper promotes dermal fibroblasts proliferation, upregulates collagen (types I, II, and V) and elastin fiber components (elastin, fibrillins) production by fibroblasts, through the induction of TGF-β, promotes heat shock protein-47, important for collagen fibril formation, serves as a cofactor of LOX enzyme required for extracellular matrix protein cross-linking, stabilizes the skin ECM once formed, as increased crosslinking of collagen and elastin matrices occurs in a copper dose dependant manner, serves as a cofactor of superoxide dismutase, an antioxidant enzyme in the skin, essential for protection against free radicals, inhibits cellular oxidative effects such as membrane damage and lipid peroxidation, acts as a cofactor of tyrosinase, a melanin biosynthesis essential enzyme responsible for skin and hair pigmentation 13. In reference to its role as a biocide, copper is an essential nutrient for many organisms. It acts as a cofactor in respiration, and therefore copper is required for aerobic metabolism. Accumulation of copper ions or intracellular release of free copper ions from proteins lead to cell damage. Copper catalyzes reactions that result in the production of hydroxyl radicals through the Fenton and Haber-Weiss reactions. The highly reactive oxygen intermediates lead to lipid peroxidation and oxidation of proteins. Free copper ions oxidize sulfhydryl groups, such as cysteine, in proteins or the cellular redox buffer glutathione. In particular, copper ions inactivate proteins by damaging Fe-S clusters in cytoplasmic hydratases 18. Primarily absorbed in the small intestine 11. Based on studies with radioactive isotopes of copper, most copper is absorbed from the stomach
and duodenum of the gastrointestinal tract.  Maximum blood copper levels are observed within 1 to 3 hours following oral administration, and about 50 percent of ingested copper was absorbed. Copper absorption is proposed to occur by two mechanisms, one energy- dependent and the other enzymatic. Factors that can interfere with copper absorption include competition for binding sites with zinc, interactions with molybdenum and sulfates, chelation with phytates, and inhibition by ascorbic acid (vitamin C) 16. Copper absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract is transported rapidly to blood serum and deposited in the liver bound to metallothionein 16. From 20 to 60% of the dietary copper is absorbed 8. The body of a 70 kg healthy individual contains approximately 110 mg of copper, 50% of which is found in the bones and muscles, 15% in the skin, 15% in the bone marrow, 10% in the hepatic system, and 8% in the brain 13. The distribution of copper is affected by sex, age, and the amount of copper in the diet. Brain and liver have the highest tissue levels (about one-third of the total body burden), with lesser concentrations found in the heart, spleen, kidneys, and blood. The iris and choroid of the eye have very high copper levels 16. Erythrocyte copper levels are generally stable, however, plasma levels fluctuate widely in association with the synthesis and release of ceruloplasmin. Plasma copper levels during gestation may be 2-3 times levels measured before pregnancy, due to the increased synthesis of ceruloplasmin 16. About 80 percent of the absorbed copper is bound to liver metallothionein; the remainder is incorporated into cytochrome c oxidase or sequestered by lysosomes 16. The bioavailability of copper from the diet is about 65-70% depending on a variety of factors including chemical form, interaction with other metals, and dietary components 5. Maximum blood copper levels were observed within 1 to 3 hours following oral administration, and about 50 percent of ingested copper was absorbed. Copper absorption is believed to occur by two mechanisms, one energy- dependent and the other enzymatic. Factors that can interfere with copper absorption include competition for binding sites with zinc, interactions with molybdenum and sulfates, chelation with phytates, and inhibition by ascorbic acid 16. Copper absorbed from the intestine is transported quickly into blood serum and deposited in the liver bound to metallothionein. It is released and incorporated into ceruloplasmin, a copper-specific transport protein. The remaining copper in the serum binds to albumin or amino acids or is contained in the erythrocytes. About 80 percent of the absorbed copper is bound to liver metallothionein; the remainder is included into cytochrome c oxidase or sequestered by lysosomes 16. This drug is 80% eliminated via the liver in bile. Minimal excretion by the kidney 11.
Dalteparin | DrugBank Online Dalteparin, a low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) prepared by nitrous acid degradation of unfractionated heparin of porcine intestinal mucosa origin, is an anticoagulant. It is composed of strongly acidic sulphated polysaccharide chains with an average molecular weight of 5000 and about 90% of the material within the range of 2000-9000. LMWHs have a more predictable response, a greater bioavailability, and a longer anti-Xa half life than unfractionated heparin. Dalteparin can also be safely used in most pregnant women. Low molecular weight heparins are less effective at inactivating factor IIa due to their shorter length compared to unfractionated heparin. Dalteparin is used as a prophylaxis for deep-vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolisms in patients undergoing general surgery (e.g., abdominal, gynecologic, urologic), and in patients with acute medical conditions (e.g. cancer, bed rest, heart failure, severe lung disease). It is also used in patients who have severely restricted mobility, which poses a risk for thromboembolic complications.  Dalteparin is also used concomitantly with aspirin and/or other therapy (e.g., nitrates, β-adrenergic blockers, clopidogrel, platelet glycoprotein [GP] IIb/IIIa-receptor inhibitors) to reduce the risk of acute cardiac ischemic events. The patients who undergo this treatment combination have unstable angina or non-ST-segment elevation/non-Q-wave myocardial infarction (i.e., non-ST-segment elevation acute coronary syndromes). It is also used in the prevention of clotting during hemodialysis and hemofiltration in connection with acute renal failure or chronic renal insufficiency. Dalteparin has an antithrombin binding site that is essential for high affinity binding to the plasma protein antithrombin (ATIII). Anti-Xa activity of plasma is used as both as an estimate of clotting activity, and as a basis to determine dosage. Its use should be avoided in patients with a creatinine clearance less than 20mL/min. In these patients, unfractionated heparin should only be used. As for monitoring, active partial thromboplastin time (aPTT) will only increase at high doses of low molecular weight heparins (LMWH). Therefore, monitoring aPTT is not recommended. However, anti-Xa activity can be measured to monitor the efficacy of the LMWH.  Dalteparin potentiates the activity of ATIII, inhibiting the formation of both factor Xa and thrombin. The main difference between dalteparin and unfractionated heparin (UH) is that dalteparin preferentially inactivates factor Xa. As a result, only a slight increase in clotting time [(i.e. activated partial thomboplastin time (APTT)] is observed relative to UH. For this same reason, APTT is not used to monitor the effects of dalteparin except as an indicator for overdosage.  Almost completely absorbed after subcutaneous (sc) doses, with a bioavialability of about 87%.  3 litres Less than unfractionated heparin, which is more than 90%. Liver and the reticulo-endothelial system are the sites of biotransformation. They are partially metabolized by desulphatation and depolymerization. After 4 hours, about 20% is seen in urine. Most of the remainder is found in the liver, gastrointestinal tract and kidney. The kidneys are the major site of dalteparin excretion (approximately 70% based on animal studies). Terminal Half life:
Intravenous - 2 hours. Subcutaneous - 3-5hours Excreted via kidneys. The plasma clearance rate is 33 mL/min. Overdosage: hemorrhagic complications.
Adverse Drug Reaction:
(common) osteopenia with extended use; mild, reversible non-immunological thrombocytopenia; transient elevation of liver transaminases; alopecia.
Dimercaprol | DrugBank Online Dimercaprol is a traditional chelating agent developed by British biochemists at Oxford University during World War II. It was developed as an experimental antidote against the arsenic-based poison gas Lewisite. It has been used clinically since 1949 in arsenic, cadmium and mercury poisoning. In addition, it has in the past been used for the treatment of Wilson's disease, a genetic disorder in which the body tends to retain copper. Dimercaprol has toxic potential, and its use may be followed by a variety of adverse effects. For the treatment of arsenic, gold and mercury poisoning. Indicated in acute lead poisoning when used concomitantly with edetate calcium disodium (DB00974). Due to its oily nature, dimercaprol is not absorbed orally and its administration requires a deep intra-muscular injection that is extremely painful and allergenic. It was found to mobilize and relocate lead to the brain, increasing its neurotoxic effects. Despite that fact that dimercaprol increases cadmium excretion, there is an associated increase in kidney cadmium concentration. Because of this, dimercaprol must be avoided in patients with cadmium toxicity. The sulfhydryl groups of dimercaprol form complexes with certain heavy metals thus preventing or reversing the metallic binding of sulfhydryl-containing enzymes. The complex is excreted in the urine. After intra-muscular injection. Urine. The drug has a short half life. The intramuscular LD50 in rats is approximately 105 mg/kg; intraperitoneally 140 mg/kg. The intraperitoneal LD80 in mice is approximately 125 mg/kg. Dimercaprol has been shown in animal experiments to increase brain deposition of arsenite, organic mercury compounds and increase the toxicity of cadmium and lead. Dimercaprol has been shown to induce seizure in animal studies and also is nephrotoxic.  Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Peppel, W.J. and Signaigo, F.K.; U.S. Patent 2,402,665; June 25,1946; assigned to E.I. du
Ganirelix | DrugBank Online Ganirelix is an injectable competitive gonadotropin-releasing hormone antagonist (GnRH antagonist). It is utilized frequently in assisted reproduction therapy to control the occurrence of ovulation. The drug exerts its effects by inhibiting the action of GnRH in the pituitary gland, leading to fast suppression of luteinizing hormone (LH) and follicle-stimulating hormone (FSH). Ganirelix is used in fertility treatment to prevent premature ovulation that could result in the harvesting of eggs that are too immature to be used in procedures such as in vitro fertilization. Ganirelix is marketed by Merck & Co., Inc. as Orgalutran®. For the inhibition of premature LH surges in women undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation. Ganirelix acts by competitively blocking the GnRH receptors on the pituitary gonadotroph and subsequent transduction pathway. It induces a rapid, reversible suppression of gonadotropin secretion. The suppression of pituitary LH secretion by ganirelix is more pronounced than that of FSH. An initial release of endogenous gonadotropins has not been detected with ganirelix, which is consistent with an antagonist effect. Upon discontinuation of ganirelix, pituitary LH and FSH levels are fully recovered within 48 hours. Ganirelix is rapidly absorbed following subcutaneous injection with maximum serum concentrations reached approximately one hour after dosing. The mean (SD) volume of distribution of Ganirelix in healthy females following intravenous administration of a single 250 mg dose is 43.7 (11.4) L.  81.9%. Following single-dose intravenous administration of radiolabeled ganirelix acetate to healthy female volunteers, ganirelix Acetate is the major compound present in the plasma (50–70% of total radioactivity in the plasma) up to 4 hours and urine (17.1–18.4% of administered dose) up to 24 hours. Ganirelix Acetate is not found in the feces. The 1–4 peptide and 1–6 peptide of Ganirelix Acetate are the primary metabolites observed in the feces. On average, 97.2% of the total radiolabeled ganirelix dose is recovered in the feces and urine (75.1% and 22.1%, respectively) over 288 h following intravenous single dose administration of 1 mg [14 75 C]-ganirelix acetate. Urinary excretion is virtually complete in 24 h, whereas fecal excretion starts to plateau 192 h after dosing. 16.2 hours. Single dose: 2.4L/hour
Iron sucrose | DrugBank Online Iron sucrose (sucroferric oxyhydroxide or iron saccharate) is used as a source of iron in patients with iron deficiency anemia with chronic kidney disease (CKD), including those who are undergoing dialysis (hemodialysis or peritoneal) and those who do not require dialysis. Due to less side effects than iron dextran, iron sucrose is more preferred in chronic kidney disease patients. Iron sucrose is elemental iron as an injection. It replenishes body iron stores in patients with iron deficiency. Significant increases in serum iron and serum ferritin and significant decreases in total iron binding capacity occurred four weeks from the initiation of iron sucrose treatment. Following intravenous administration, iron sucrose is dissociated into iron and sucrose and the iron is transported as a complex with transferrin to target cells including erythroid precursor cells. The iron is then incorporated into hemoglobin as the cells mature into red blood cells. The intravensously administered iron sucrose injection would result rapidly in high serum iron levels. Maximum measured levels occured after 10 min of injection with an average of 30.00 mg/l. Vd is 7.3 L It binds with transferrin. Following IV administration, dissociated into iron and sucrose by the reticuloendothelial system. Renal elimination of iron contributed very little to the total elimination (in average less than 5%).
While, renal elimination of sucrose accounts for 68-75% of the administered dose after 4 and 24 hours respectively.  6 hours. Total body clearance is 20.5 ml/min. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic shock, loss of consciousness, collapse, hypotension, dyspnea, and seizure.
Monitor iron toxicity through the periodic evaluation of lab works which monitor the body concentration of iron. Lab monitoring of the following parameters: transferrin saturation, serum ferritin concentrations, hemoglobin, and hematocrit could be helpful to avoid iron overload.
Lanreotide | DrugBank Online Lanreotide is a drug employed in the management of acromegaly (a hormonal condition caused by excess growth hormone) in addition to symptoms caused by neuroendocrine tumors, especially carcinoid syndrome. This drug is a long-acting analog of the drug somatostatin, a growth hormone inhibitor. Lanreotide is manufactured by the company, Ipsen Pharmaceuticals as lanreotide acetate, and marketed as Somatuline. It is approved in several countries worldwide, including the United Kingdom, Australia, and Canada. Lanreotide was first approved for use in the United States by the FDA on August 30, 2007. Lanreotide is a somatostatin analog approved for treatment of neuroendocrine tumours and acromegaly. Lanreotide exhibits antisecretory effects through cAMP suppression, and activation of ion currents such as K+ and Ca2+ which leads to hyperpolarization of the membrane and inhibition of Ca2+ mediated depolarization.
Furthermore, through direct and indirect mechanisms, Lanreotide has potent antiproliferative effects. Lanreotide is a somatostatin analogue (SSA) and has mainly inhibitory effects which are mediated via somatostatin receptors (SSTRs) 2 and 5 and include inhibition of growth hormone release in the brain. Tumor SSTR activation induces downstream cell cycle arrest and/or apoptosis, and also results in blunted production of substances that support tumor growth as well as tumor angiogenesis. This leads to the anti-proliferative effects of Lanreotide. Lanreotide forms a drug depot at the site of injection; therefore, there are 2 phases that describe the absorption of Lanreotide:
1. Initial rapid subcutaneous release during the first few days of treatment where drug that has not precipitated is rapidly absorbed.
2. Slow release of drug from the depot via passive diffusion.
Absorption is independent of body weight, gender, and dosage.  Estimated Volume of Distribution = 15.1 L <5% of lanreotide is excreted in urine, and less than 0.5% is excreted unchanged in the feces suggesting biliary excretion involvement. Half-life is approximately 22 days Estimated Clearance = 23.1 L/h The most common adverse events are GI related, occurring in 67-84% of patients, and are typically mild to moderate. GI related effects are often transient, improve with subsequent injections, and most frequently include diarrhea and abdominal pain. Other GI symptoms such as nausea, vomiting, and abdominal distension are less common. It is not clear whether or not GI effects are dose related.
Adverse effects relating to site of injection occur in 43% of patients and are more common in patients who self-inject as opposed to those who had health-care professionals administer the injection.
Methylnaltrexone | DrugBank Online Methylnaltrexone is a pheriphally-acting μ-opioid antagonist that acts on the gastrointestinal tract to decrease opioid-induced constipation without producing analgesic effects or withdrawal symptoms. It is also a weak CYP2D6 inhibitor. FDA approved in 2008. Treatment of opioids induced constipation in palliative patients that are inadequately responding to laxative therapy.  Use of opioids induces slowing of gastrointestinal motility and transit. Following remifentanil administration, the methylnaltrexone and placebo groups showed no change in pupiliary constriction while the naloxone group showed a marked change over the time interval tested.  Methylnaltrexone is a pheriphally-acting μ-opioid antagonists that acts on the gastrointestinal tract inhibit opioid-induced decrease in gastric motility and transit time. Because methylnaltrexone is a quaternary derivative of naltrexone, it produces its gastrointestinal effects without producing analgesic effects or withdrawal symptoms as it does not cross the blood-brain-barrier.  Methylnaltrexone is rapidly absorbed.
Tmax (SubQ): 30 minutes (regardless of dose);
Cmax, 0.15 mg/kg SubQ dose = 117 ng/mL;
AUC24, 0.15 mg/kg SubQ dose = 175 ng·hr/mL;  Volume of distribution, steady state = 1.1 L/kg  11% to 15% bound to human plasma proteins.  60% of the dose is metabolized. Conversion to methyl-6-naltrexol isomers (5% of total dose) and methylnaltrexone sulfate (1.3% of total dose) appear to be the primary pathways of metabolism. N‑demethylation of methylnaltrexone to produce naltrexone is not significant.  Most of the drug is eliminated as unchanged drug (85% of administered radioactivity). Approximately half of the dose is excreted in the urine and somewhat less in feces. terminal: 8.89 ± 2.59 h (intravenous)
terminal: 6.14- 8.83 h (subcutaneous)  10.5 ± 1.5 ml/min/kg (IV)  LD50: 50 mg/kg (primates);
Pentetate calcium trisodium | DrugBank Online Pentetic acid, also known as diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA), is a synthetic polyamino carboxylic acid with eight coordinate bond forming sites that can sequester metal ions and form highly stable DTPA-metal ion complexes. DTPA, along with its calcium and zinc trisodium salts, are the only FDA approved agents for the treatment of internal contamination by transuranics.1 It is currently considered, in all the dosage forms, as a member of the list of approved inactive ingredients for drug products by the FDA.6 DPTA was developed by the pharmaceutical company CIS US and FDA approved on April 14, 2004.8
Pentetate zinc trisodium | DrugBank Online Pentetic acid, also known as diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid (DTPA), is a synthetic polyamino carboxylic acid with eight coordinate bond forming sites that can sequester metal ions and form highly stable DTPA-metal ion complexes. DTPA, along with its calcium and zinc trisodium salts, are the only FDA approved agents for the treatment of internal contamination by transuranics.1 It is currently considered, in all the dosage forms, as a member of the list of approved inactive ingredients for drug products by the FDA.6 DPTA was developed by the pharmaceutical company CIS US and FDA approved on April 14, 2004.8
Plerixafor | DrugBank Online Plerixafor is a hematopoietic stem cell mobilizer. It is used to stimulate the release of stem cells from the bone marrow into the blood in patients with non-Hodgkin lymphoma and multiple myeloma for the purpose of stimulating the immune system. These stem cells are then collected and used in autologous stem cell transplantation to replace blood-forming cells that were destroyed by chemotherapy. Plerixafor has orphan drug status in the United States and European Union; it was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration on December 15, 2008. Used in combination with granulocyte-colony stimulating factor (G-CSF, filgrastim) to mobilize hematopoietic stem cells to the peripheral blood for collection and subsequent autologous transplantation in patients with non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma (NHL) and multiple myeloma (MM). Plerixafor is a bicyclam derivative that antagonizes CXCR4 by binding to three acidic residues in the ligand-binding pocket: Asp171, Asp262, and Glu288. Blood levels of CD34+ cells peaked at 9 hours after administration of 0.24 mg/kg plerixafor in healthy subjects. In patients that have non-Hodgkin’s lymphoma or multiple myeloma, blood levels of CD34+ peaked at 6 hours. In combination with a G-CSF, circulating CD34+ cells in the peripheral blood peaked at 9-14 hours.  Plerixafor inhibits the CXCR4 chemokine receptors on CD34+ cells and reversibly blocks binding of the ligand, stromal cell-derived factor-1-alpha (SDF-1α). By blocking the interaction between SDF-1α and CXCR4 with plerixafor, mobilization of progenitor cells is triggered. Filgrastim, a granulocyte-colony stimulating factor, is added to enhance CD34+ cell mobilization, thus increasing the yield of stem cells- an important determinant of graft adequacy.  Pharmacokinetic profile follows a two-compartment model with first-order absorption. A median peak plasma concentration of 0.24 mg/kg of plerixafor occurred 30-60 minutes after subcutaneous dose.  0.3 L/kg  58%  Metabolism does not involved CYP isoenzymes  0.24 mg/kg, healthy subjects: ~70% of the parent drug is excreted in urine in the first 24 hours.  Terminal elimination half-life, NHL patients: 4.4 hours;
Terminal elimination half-life, MM patients: 5.6 hours;
Terminal elimination half-life, Hodgkin's lymphoma patients: 3.5 hours;
Distribution half-life: 0.3 hours  Total plasma clearance: 4.38 L/h;
Renal clearance: 3.15 L/h  LD50, mouse, SC: 16.3 mg/kg;
LD50, rat, SC: >50 mg/kg;
Povidone-iodine | DrugBank Online Povidone-iodine is a stable chemical complex of polyvinylpyrrolidone (povidone, PVP) and elemental iodine. It contains from 9.0% to 12.0% available iodine, calculated on a dry basis. This unique complex was discovered in 1955 at the Industrial Toxicology Laboratories in Philadelphia by H. A. Shelanski and M. V. Shelanski. During in vitro testing to demonstrate anti-bacterial activity it was found that the complex was less toxic in mice than tincture of iodine. Human clinical trials showed the product to be superior to other iodine formulations. Povidone-iodine was immediately marketed, and has since become the universally preferred iodine antiseptic. For topical application in the treatment and prevention of infection in wounds. Povidone iodine is a kind of iodine disinfectant which directly cause in vivo protein denaturation, precipitation of bacteria, and further resulting in the death of pathogenic microorganisms. Therefore, it is effective in disinfection and sterilization. It can kill viruses, bacteria, spores, fungi, and protozoa with low toxicity to human. Povidone-iodine aqueous solution has strong pharmacological activity against Staphylococcus aureus, Neisseria gonorrhoeae, Pseudomonas aeruginosa, syphilis, hepatitis B virus, HIV, and Trichomonas vaginalis.
Pralatrexate | DrugBank Online Pralatrexate is an antimetabolite for the treatment of relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma. It is more efficiently retained in cancer cells than methotrexate. FDA approved on September 24, 2009. Treatment of relapsed or refractory peripheral T-cell lymphoma.  Pralatrexate is a 10-deazaaminopterin analogue of methotrexate. Compared to methotrexate, pralatrexate binds to RTC-1 with 10-times the affinity and is a more potent substrate for FPGS. As a result, pralatrexate is better internalized and retained in cancer cells and is more cytotoxic.
Km, pralatrexate = 0.3 μmol/L;
Km, methotrexate = 4.8 μmol/L;
Vmax/Km (rate of intracellular transport), pralatrexate = 12.6
Vmax/Km (rate of intracellular transport), methotrexate = 0.9  The selectivity of pralatrexate for cancer cells is based upon the observation that cancer cells generally have an overexpression of reduced folate carrier protein-1 (RTC-1) compared to normal somatic cells. This carrier protein allows the entrance of pralatrexate into the cell. Upon entering the cell, folypolyglutamate synthase FPGS catalyzes the polyglutamination of pralatrexate so that it is retained inside the cell.
Once inside, pralatrexate competitively inhibits dihydrofolate reductase (DHFR) and thymidylate synthase. Subsequent depletion of thymidine monophosphate (TMP) occurs so that the cancer cell is unable to synthesize DNA and RNA. As a result, the cancer cell cannot proliferate and is forced to undergo apoptosis. Pralatrexate is more effective against cells that are actively dividing.  Pralatrexate demonstrates linear pharmacokinetics with a multiphasic decline with both diasteromers over dose range of 30-325 mg/m^2.
Bioavailability, nonformulated preparation = 13 - 20% Vss, R-pralatrexate = 37 L
Vss, S-pralatrexate = 105 L  67 - 86% bound to plasma protein, albumin is the major binder. Does not significantly displace substrates from proteins.  No involvement of CYP450 enzyme system or glucuronidases.  35% of drug is excreted unchanged in the urine (no difference between R- and S- pralatrexate). May be some net renal tubular excretion.  12-18 hours  R- pralatrexate = 191 mL/min
S- pralatrexate = 417 mL/min
Phenylbutyric acid | DrugBank Online A monocarboxylic acid the structure of which is that of butyric acid substituted with a phenyl group at C-4. It is a histone deacetylase inhibitor that displays anticancer activity. It inhibits cell proliferation, invasion and migration and induces apoptosis in glioma cells. It also inhibits protein isoprenylation, depletes plasma glutamine, increases production of foetal haemoglobin through transcriptional activation of the γ-globin gene and affects hPPARγ activation. Adjunctive therapy for the management of chronic urea cycle disorders due to deficiencies in carbamylphosphate (CPS), ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC), or argininosuccinic acid synthetase. it is indicated in all neonatal- onset efficiency presenting within the first 28 days of life. Also indicated in patients with late-onset, presenting after the first month of life with a history of hyperammonemic encephalopathy.  Decreases elevated plasma ammonia glutamine levels Sodium phenylbutyrate is a pro-drug that is metabolized to the active compound phenylacetate. Phenylacetate conjuages with glutamine via acetylation reaction to form the product phenylacetylglutamine, which is excreted by the kidneys. This provides an alternative mechanism for waste nitrogen excretion.  Under fasting condition the Cmax of a single orally ingested 5g tablet and 5g powder after 1 hour are respectively 218mcg/ml and 195mcg/ml.
The effect of food on phenylbutyrate absorption is still unknown. The volume of distribution of phenylbutyrate is 0.2 l/kg. phenylbutyrate and Phenylacetate concentrations in the plasma were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. Both drugs exhibited concentration-dependent binding. Results showed sodium phenylacetate to have a higher free fraction than sodium phenylbutyrate at corresponding concentrations (> 0.442 +/- 0.008 and > 0.188 +/- 0.001, respectively). Both have high free fractions in plasma. The overall disposition of sodium phenylbutyrate and its metabolites has not been characterized fully. However, the drug is known to be metabolized to phenylacetate and subsequently to phenylacetylglutamine.
Metabolism of phenylbutyrate occurs mainly in liver and kidney. Hover over products below to view reaction partners The major route of elimination is the kidneys as phenylacetylglutamine.  For sodium phenylbutyrate the half life is 0.77 hours. For phenylacetate the half life is 1.15 hours.  Within 24 hours 80-100% of the administered dose in eliminated in the urine as pheylacetylglutamine.  Clinical adverse reaction: In females who were menstruating, 23% reported amenorrhea or menstrual dysfunction. In all patients, 4% reported a decreased appetite, and body odor issues, and 3% of patients report a taste aversion. Other adverse events that occurred in less than 2% of patients were abdominal pain, gastritis, nausea and vomiting, constipation, rectal bleeding, peptic ulcer disease, pancreatitis, aplastic anemia, ecchymosis, arrhythmia, edema, renal tubular acidosis, depressions, skin rash, headache, syncope, and weight gain occurring in at least one patient.
Tiopronin | DrugBank Online Tiopronin is a prescription thiol drug used primarily in the treatment of severe homozygous cystinuria. Patients with cystinuria excrete high levels of cystine in their urine and are at risk for kidney stone formation. Tiopronin is used as a second-line therapy to control the rate of cystine precipitation and excretion, and prevent kidney stone formation. It is used after a failure of the non-pharmacological first line treatment consisting of increased fluid intake, restriction of sodium and protein, and urinary alkalinization. As cystinuria is a relatively rare disease, tiopronin is classified as an orphan drug and is not patented in the United States. It is similar to d-penicillamine in use and efficacy, but offers the advantage of far less adverse effects. Tiopronin is dosed on an individual basis using close monitoring of urinary cystine concentrations and urinary output. Tiopronin may also be used to bind metal nanoparticles in Wilson's disease, which is an overload of copper in the body. It has been investigated for use in the treatment of arthritis and as a neuroprotective agent in aneurysmal subarachnoid hemorrhage. Tiopronin is indicated for the prevention of kidney stone formation in patients with severe homozygous cystinuria consisting of a urinary cystine concentration greater than 500 mg/day, and who have failed treatment with non-pharmacological measures of increased fluid intake, decreased sodium and protein intake, and urine alkalinization. Kidney stones form when the solubility limit is exceeded and urine becomes supersaturated with endogenous cystine. Tiopronin is an active reducing agent which undergoes a thiol-disulfide exchange with cystine to form a water-soluble mixed disulfide complex. Thus, the amount of sparingly soluble cystine is reduced. By reducing urinary cystine concentrations below the solubility limit, tiopronin helps reduce cystine stone formation.  Tiopronin undergoes slow absorption, reaching peak plasma concentration 3-6 hours after ingestion. In a study of healthy subjects, the bioavailability of total and unbound tiopronin was found to be 63% and 40%, respectively. The volume of distribution of tiopronin is high at 455 L, indicating that a large portion of the drug is bound to tissues outside plasma. Tiopronin undergoes extensive protein binding in plasma. It is thought that this occurs through the formation of a disulphide bridge to the free thiol group of albumin. The principle metabolite of tiopronin is 2-mercaptopropionic acid (2-MPA). Between 10-15% of the drug is metabolized to 2-MPA via hydrolysis. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Tiopronin is 100% excreted in urine. Tiopronin has a long terminal half life of 53 hours in healthy subjects. However, the unbound drug fraction of tiopronin is eliminated much more rapidly from plasma with a calculated half life of 1.8 hours. Total renal clearance for the total and unbound fractions of tiopronin were found to be 3.3 and 13.3 L/h respectively.  Long-term carcinogenicity and mutagenicity studies have not been performed with tiopronin. In experimental animal studies, high doses of tiopronin were shown to interfere with the maintenance of pregnancy and viability of a fetus. No neural tube defects were detected when tiopronin was given to mice and rats in doses up to 10 times the highest recommended human dose. However, the manufacturer does not rule out the possibility of teratogenicity, as it has been seen with the drug d-penicillamine, which acts with a similar mechanism to tiopronin. Tiopronin is not recommended for use in breastfeeding mothers and has no established safety in children 9 years old or younger.
Unoprostone | DrugBank Online Unoprostone isopropyl is a prostaglandin analogue. Ophthalmic Solution 0.15% is a synthetic docosanoid. Unoprostone isopropyl has the chemical name isopropyl (+)-(Z)-7-[(1R,2R,3R,5S)-3,5 dihydroxy-2-(3-oxodecyl)cyclopentyl]-5-heptenoate.
The main indication of Unoprostane is treatment of glucoma. For the lowering of intraocular pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension who are intolerant of other intraocular pressure lowering medications or insufficiently responsive (failed to achieve target IOP determined after multiple measurements over time) to another intraocular pressure lowering medication. Unoprostone will begin to reduce IOP 30 minutes after ocular instillation. Unoprostone is believed to reduce elevated intraocular pressure (IOP), by increasing the outflow of aqueous humor. The mechanism of action for the IOP-lowering effect of unoprostone is controversial. Early studies showed that unoprostone increases aqueous humor outflow through the uveoscleral pathway similar to the 20-carbon prostaglandin analogs, such as latanoprost.8 More recent evidence, however, shows that it may work, at least in part, through stimulation of Ca2+-activated BK and CIC-2 type channels, leading to increased trabecular meshwork outflow. After application to the eye, unoprostone isopropyl is absorbed through the cornea and conjunctival epithelium where it is hydrolyzed by esterases to unoprostone free acid. mean peak unoprostone free acid plasma concentration was <1.5 ng/mL and dro pped below the lower limit of quantitation (<0.250 ng/mL) 1 hour following instillation, indicating low systemic absorption and rapid plasma excretion. Intended for local use only, very low systemic absorption.  Intended for local use only, very low systemic absorption.  After ocular application, unoprostone isopropyl is hydrolyzed by esterases in the cornea to its biological active metabolite, unoprostone free acid.
Unoprostone free acid is then metabolized to several inactive metabolites with lower molecular weight and increased polarity via ε- or β-oxidation.
Bimatoprost | DrugBank Online Bimatoprost, also known as Latisse or Lumigan, belongs to a group of drugs called prostamides, which are synthetic structural analogs of prostaglandin. Bimatoprost, marketed by Allergan, is administered in both the ophthalmic solution and implant form. It has the ability to reduce ocular hypotension, proving effective in conditions such as ocular hypertension and glaucoma.13,14,15,20 Bimatoprost is also used to treat eyelash hypotrichosis, or sparse eyelash growth.16 It was initially approved by the FDA in 2001 for ocular hypertension and later approved for hypothrichosis in 2008, as eyelash growth became a desirable adverse effect for patients using this drug.17 Bimatoprost is used for the reduction of elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension.
Diflunisal | DrugBank Online Diflunisal, a salicylate derivative, is a nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory agent (NSAIA) with pharmacologic actions similar to other prototypical NSAIAs. Diflunisal possesses anti-inflammatory, analgesic and antipyretic activity. Though its mechanism of action has not been clearly established, most of its actions appear to be associated with inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis via the arachidonic acid pathway. Diflunisal is used to relieve pain accompanied with inflammation and in the symptomatic treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and osteoarthritis. For symptomatic treatment of mild to moderate pain accompanied by inflammation (e.g. musculoskeletal trauma, post-dental extraction, post-episiotomy), osteoarthritis, and rheumatoid arthritis. Diflunisal is a nonsteroidal drug with analgesic, anti-inflammatory and antipyretic properties. It is a peripherally-acting non-narcotic analgesic drug. Habituation, tolerance and addiction have not been reported. Diflunisal is a difluorophenyl derivative of salicylic acid. Chemically, diflunisal differs from aspirin (acetylsalicylic acid) in two respects. The first of these two is the presence of a difluorophenyl substituent at carbon 1. The second difference is the removal of the 0-acetyl group from the carbon 4 position. Diflunisal is not metabolized to salicylic acid, and the fluorine atoms are not displaced from the difluorophenyl ring structure. The precise mechanism of the analgesic and anti-inflammatory actions of diflunisal is not known. Diflunisal is a prostaglandin synthetase inhibitor. In animals, prostaglandins sensitize afferent nerves and potentiate the action of bradykinin in inducing pain. Since prostaglandins are known to be among the mediators of pain and inflammation, the mode of action of diflunisal may be due to a decrease of prostaglandins in peripheral tissues. Rapidly and completely absorbed following oral administration, with a bioavailability of 80-90%. Peak plasma concentrations are achieved 2 - 3 hours following oral administration.  At least 98 to 99% of diflunisal in plasma is bound to proteins. Hepatic, primarily via glucuronide conjugation (90% of administered dose). The drug is excreted in the urine as two soluble glucuronide conjugates accounting for about 90% of the administered dose. Little or no diflunisal is excreted in the feces. 8 to 12 hours Oral LD50 in rat, mouse, and rabbit is 392 mg/kg, 439 mg/kg, and 603 mg/kg, respectively. Symptoms of overdose include drowsiness, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, hyperventilation, tachycardia, sweating, tinnitus, disorientation, stupor, and coma. As a monotherapy, the smallest dosage capable of causing death was reported as 15 grams.
Diphenhydramine | DrugBank Online Diphenhydramine - perhaps known most commonly as its brand name formulation Benadryl - is a first-generation H1 receptor antihistamine that is used extensively for the treatment of seasonal allergies, insect bites and stings, and rashes 9,10,11,16. However, it also has antiemetic, antitussive, hypnotic, and antiparkinson properties 11,15. As histamine receptors exist both peripherally and in the central nervous system, diphenhydramine has been shown to cause sedation due to its competitive antagonism of histamine H1 receptors within the central nervous system 9,10,11,16,5. While its use in allergy therapy can sometimes fall out of favor due to its sedative effect, diphenhydramine has been repurposed for use within many non-prescription over-the-counter sleep aids and cough-and-cold medications that have been marketed for "night time" use 9,12,13.  Diphenhydramine is also used in combination with 8-chlorotheophylline as the anti-nausea drug Dimenhydrinate where it is utilized primarily for its antagonism of H1 histamine receptors within the vestibular system 4. Diphenhydramine has also been shown to be implicated in a number of neurotransmitter systems that affect behaviour including dopamine, norepinephrine, serotonin, acetylcholine, and opioid 3. As a result, diphenhydramine is being investigated for its anxiolytic and anti-depressant properties. Diphenhydramine is a first-generation histamine H1 receptor antagonist (H1 antihistamine) that is widely available as a non-prescription, over-the-counter (OTC) medication. As an OTC medication, diphenhydramine is typically formulated as tablets and creams indicated for use in treating sneezing, runny nose, itchy/watery eyes, itching of nose or throat, insomnia, pruritis, urticaria, insect bites/stings, allergic rashes, and nausea 9,10,11,16,5. Additionally, when the use of oral diphenhydramine is impractical, there are also prescription-only formulations such as diphenhydramine injection products that are effective in adults and pediatric patients (other than premature infants and neonates) for:
i) the amelioration of allergic reactions to blood or plasma, in anaphylaxis as an adjunct to epinephrine and other standard measures after acute allergic reaction symptoms have been controlled, and for other uncomplicated allergic conditions of the immediate type when oral therapy is impossible or contraindicated 15;
ii) the active treatment of motion sickness 15; and
Etravirine | DrugBank Online Etravirine is an antiretroviral agent more specifically classified as a Non-Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor(NNRTI). Etraverine is used clinically for the treatment of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1) infection.
On January 18, 2007, the FDA granted accelerated approved for the use of etravirine 100mg tablets in the treatment of adult HIV-1 infection documented to be resistant to therapy with other NNRTIs and antiretroviral agents. On March 26, 2012, approval was extended for use in treatment-experienced pediatric patients 6 to 18 years of age, weighing at least 16 kg. Etravarine must always be used in combination with other antiretroviral drugs.  Etravirine exerts its effects via direct inhibition of the reverse transcriptase enzyme of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1), and consequently blocks DNA-dependent and RNA-dependent polymerase activity. Etravirine does not inhibit human DNA polymerase alpha, beta or gamma.  Common side effects of use include mild to moderate rash within the first 6 weeks of therapy, nausea, diarrhea and peripheral neuropathy. Patients are advised to immediately contact their healthcare provider if a rash develops.  In 2009, postmarketing case reports of Stevens-Johnson Syndrome, toxic epidermal necrolysis, erythema multiforme, and other hypersensitivity reactions lead to a revision of etravirine's "Warnings and Precautions," as well as notification of health care providers.  In 2013, reports of Autoimmune disorders (such as Graves’ disease, polymyositis, and Guillain-Barré
syndrome) in the setting of immune reconstitution, as well as more in depth information about the development of rashes in patients taking etravirine, lead to a modification of etravirine's monograph. Indicated as an adjunct therapy in the treatment of adult HIV-1 infections resistant to therapy with other NNRTIs and antiretroviral agents.  Clinical trials have shown no prolongation of QT intervals on electrocardiograms after 8 days of dosing.  Etravirine exerts its effects via direct inhibition of the reverse transcriptase enzyme of human immunodeficiency virus type 1 (HIV-1). It directly binds reverse transcriptase and consequently blocks DNA-dependent and RNA-dependent polymerase activity. Etravirine does not inhibit human DNA polymerase alpha, beta or gamma.  Maximum oral absorption is achieved in 2.5-4 hours.  Absorption is unaffected by the concomitant use of oral ranitidine or omeprazole, which decrease gastric acidity.  Administration under fasting conditions resulted in a near 50% decrease in systemic exposure (AUC) when compared to administration after a meal.  Distribution of etravirine into compartments other than plasma has not been evaluated in humans.  Plasma protein binding is about 99.9% in vitro.
In vitro, 99.6% is bound to albumin, and 97.66% - 99.02% is bound to 1-alpha glycoprotein.  Metabolized (in vitro) by the liver CYP450 enzymes: CYP3A4, CYP2C9, CYP2C19. The major metabolites formed by a methyl hydroxylation of the dimethylbenzonitrile moiety retained less than 90% of etravirine's activity.  After a 800mg dose of radio-labelled etraverine, 93.7% was found to undergo fecal elimination, with 81.2% - 86.4% eliminated unchanged.
Azapropazone | DrugBank Online Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Molnar, I., Wagner-Jauregg,T., Jahn, U. and Mixich, G.; US. Patent 3,349,088; October 24,
1967; assigned to Siegfried AG, Switzerland
Molnar, I.,Wagner-Jauregg,T., Jahn, U. and Mixich, G.; US. Patent 3,482,024; December 2,
Sorafenib | DrugBank Online Sorafenib (rINN), marketed as Nexavar by Bayer, is a drug approved for the treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma (primary kidney cancer). It has also received "Fast Track" designation by the FDA for the treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (primary liver cancer), and has since performed well in Phase III trials.
Clomipramine | DrugBank Online Clomipramine, the 3-chloro analog of imipramine, is a dibenzazepine-derivative tricyclic antidepressant (TCA). TCAs are structurally similar to phenothiazines. They contain a tricyclic ring system with an alkyl amine substituent on the central ring. In non-depressed individuals, clomipramine does not affect mood or arousal, but may cause sedation. In depressed individuals, clomipramine exerts a positive effect on mood. TCAs are potent inhibitors of serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake. Tertiary amine TCAs, such as clomipramine, are more potent inhibitors of serotonin reuptake than secondary amine TCAs, such as nortriptyline and desipramine. TCAs also down-regulate cerebral cortical β-adrenergic receptors and sensitize post-synaptic serotonergic receptors with chronic use. The antidepressant effects of TCAs are thought to be due to an overall increase in serotonergic neurotransmission. TCAs also block histamine-H1 receptors, α1-adrenergic receptors and muscarinic receptors, which accounts for their sedative, hypotensive and anticholinergic effects (e.g. blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, urinary retention), respectively. See toxicity section below for a complete listing of side effects. Clomipramine may be used to treat obsessive-compulsive disorder and disorders with an obsessive-compulsive component (e.g. depression, schizophrenia, Tourette’s disorder). Unlabeled indications include panic disorder, chronic pain (e.g. central pain, idiopathic pain disorder, tension headache, diabetic peripheral neuropathy, neuropathic pain), cataplexy and associated narcolepsy, autistic disorder, trichotillomania, onchophagia, stuttering, premature ejaculation, and premenstrual syndrome. Clomipramine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract and demethylated in the liver to its primary active metabolite, desmethylclomipramine. May be used to treat obsessive-compulsive disorder and disorders with an obsessive-compulsive component (e.g. depression, schizophrenia, Tourette’s disorder).
Unlabeled indications include: depression, panic disorder, chronic pain (e.g. central pain, idiopathic pain disorder, tension headache, diabetic peripheral neuropathy, neuropathic pain), cataplexy and associated narcolepsy (limited evidence), autistic disorder (limited evidence), trichotillomania (limited evidence), onchophagia (limited evidence), stuttering (limited evidence), premature ejaculation, and premenstrual syndrome.  Clomipramine, a tricyclic antidepressant, is the 3-chloro derivative of Imipramine. It was thought that tricyclic antidepressants work exclusively by inhibiting the re-uptake of the neurotransmitters norepinephrine and serotonin by nerve cells. However, this response occurs immediately, yet mood does not lift for around two weeks. It is now thought that changes occur in receptor sensitivity in the cerebral cortex and hippocampus. The hippocampus is part of the limbic system, a part of the brain involved in emotions. Presynaptic receptors are affected: α1 and β1 receptors are sensitized, α2 receptors are desensitized (leading to increased noradrenaline production). Tricyclics are also known as effective analgesics for different types of pain, especially neuropathic or neuralgic pain. Clomipramine is a strong, but not completely selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SRI), as the active main metabolite desmethyclomipramine acts preferably as an inhibitor of noradrenaline reuptake. α1-receptor blockage and β-down-regulation have been noted and most likely play a role in the short term effects of clomipramine. A blockade of sodium-channels and NDMA-receptors might, as with other tricyclics, account for its effect in chronic pain, in particular the neuropathic type. Well absorbed from the GI tract following oral administration. Bioavailability is approximately 50% orally due to extensive first-pass metabolism. Bioavailability is not affected by food. Peak plasma concentrations occurred 2-6 hours following oral administration of a single 50 mg dose. The peak plasma concentration ranged from 56 ng/mL to 154 mg/mL (mean, 92 ng/mL). There are large interindividual variations in plasma concentrations occur, partly due to genetic differences in clomipramine metabolism. On average, steady state plasma concentrations are achieved in 1-2 weeks following multiple dose oral administration. Smoking appears to lower the steady-state plasma concentration of clomipramine, but not its active metabolite desmethylclomipramine.  ~ 17 L/kg (range: 9-25 L/kg).
Clomipramine is capable of distributing into the cerebrospinal fluid, the brain, and into breast milk.  Clomipramine is approximately 97-98% bound to plasma proteins, principally to albumin and possibly to α1-acid glycoprotein. Desmethylclomipramine is 97-99% bound to plasma proteins.  Extensively metabolized in the liver. The main active metabolite is desmethylclomipramine, which is formed by N-demethylation of clomipramine via CYP2C19, 3A4 and 1A2. Other metabolites and their glucuronide conjugates are also produced. Other metabolites of clomipramine include 8-hydroxyclomipramine formed via 8-hydroxylation, 2-hydroxyclomipramine formed via 2-hydroxylation, and clomipramine N-oxide formed by N-oxidation. Desmethylclomipramine is further metabolized to 8-hydroxydesmethylclomipramine and didesmethylclomipramine, which are formed by 8-hydroxylation and N-demethylation, respectively. 8-Hydroxyclomipramine and 8-hydroxydesmethylclomipramine are pharmacologically active; however, their clinical contribution remains unknown. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Urine (51-60%) and feces via biliary elimination (24-32%) Following oral administration of a single 150 mg dose of clomipramine, the average elimination half-life of clomipramine was 32 hours (range: 19-37 hours) and of desmethylclomipramine was 69 hours (range: 54-77 hours). Elimination half-life may vary substantially with different doses due to saturable kinetics (i.e. metabolism).  Signs and symptoms vary in severity depending upon factors such as the amount of drug absorbed, the age of the patient, and the time elapsed since drug ingestion. Critical manifestations of overdose include cardiac dysrhythmias, severe hypotension, convulsions, and CNS depression including coma. Changes in the electrocardiogram, particularly in QRS axis or width, are clinically significant indicators of tricyclic toxicity. In U.S. clinical trials, 2 deaths occurred in 12 reported cases of acute overdosage with Anafranil either alone or in combination with other drugs. One death involved a patient suspected of ingesting a dose of 7000 mg. The second death involved a patient suspected of ingesting a dose of 5750 mg.
Side effects include: sedation, hypotension, blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, urinary retention, postural hypotension, tachycardia, hypertension, ECG changes, heart failure, impaired memory and delirium, and precipitation of hypomanic or manic episodes in bipolar depression.
Diazepam | DrugBank Online A benzodiazepine with anticonvulsant, anxiolytic, sedative, muscle relaxant, and amnesic properties and a long duration of action. Its actions are mediated by enhancement of gamma-aminobutyric acid activity. It is used in the treatment of severe anxiety disorders, as a hypnotic in the short-term management of insomnia, as a sedative and premedicant, as an anticonvulsant, and in the management of alcohol withdrawal syndrome. (From Martindale, The Extra Pharmacopoeia, 30th ed, p589) Given diazepam's storied history as a commonly used and effective medication for a variety of indications, contemporary advancements in the formulation and administration of the agent include the development and US FDA approval of an auto-injectable formulation for the rapid treatment of uncontrolled seizures in 2015-2016 7. Combining diazepam, a proven effective therapy for acute repetitive seizures, with an auto-injector designed for subcutaneous administration that is quickly and easily administered offers the potential for complete, consistent drug absorption and rapid onset of effect 7. This current development is subsequently an important addition to the rescue therapy tool chest for patients with epilepsy 7. In general, diazepam is useful in the symptomatic management of mild to moderate degrees of anxiety in conditions dominated by tension, excitation, agitation, fear, or aggressiveness such as may occur in psychoneurosis, anxiety reactions due to stress conditions, and anxiety states with somatic expression.10 Moreover, in acute alcoholic withdrawal, diazepam may be useful in the symptomatic relief of acute agitation, tremor, and impending acute delirium tremens.10 Furthermore, diazepam is a useful adjunct for the relief of skeletal muscle spasm due to reflex spasm to local pathologies, such as inflammation of the muscle and joints or secondary to trauma; spasticity caused by upper motor neuron disorders, such as cerebral palsy and paraplegia; athetosis and the rare "stiff man syndrome".10 Particular label information from the United Kingdom also lists particular age-specific indications, including for adults: (1) The short-term relief (2-4 weeks) only, of anxiety which is severe, disabling, or subjecting the individual to unacceptable distress, occurring alone or in association with insomnia or short-term psychosomatic, organic or psychotic illness, (2) cerebral palsy, (3) muscle spasm, (4) as an adjunct to certain types of epilepsy (eg. myoclonus), (5) symptomatic treatment of acute alcohol withdrawal, (6) as oral premedication for the nervous dental patient, and (7) for premedication before surgery.6 In the same UK label information, diazepam is indicated in children for: (1) control of tension and irritability in cerebral spasticity in selected cases, (2) as an adjunct to the control of muscle spasm in tetanus, and for (3) oral premedication.6 A diazepam nasal spray is indicated in patients 6 years and older to treat intermittent, stereotypic episodes of frequent seizure activity that are different than the patient's usual seizure pattern.8 Diazepam is a benzodiazepine that exerts anxiolytic, sedative, muscle- relaxant, anticonvulsant and amnestic effects 9,10,6. Most of these effects are thought to result from facilitation of the action of gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA), an inhibitory neurotransmitter in the central nervous system 9,10,6. Diazepam is a benzodiazepine tranquilliser with anticonvulsant, sedative, muscle relaxant and amnesic properties 9,10,6. Benzodiazepines, such as diazepam, bind to receptors in various regions of the brain and spinal cord. This binding increases the inhibitory effects of gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) 9,10,6. GABAs functions include CNS involvement in sleep induction. Also involved in the control of hypnosis, memory, anxiety, epilepsy and neuronal excitability 9,10,6. After oral administration, it is considered that diazepam is rapidly and completely absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract as >90% of diazepam is absorbed and the average time to achieve peak plasma concentrations is 1 – 1.5 hours with a range of 0.25 to 2.5 hours 9,10,6. Absorption is delayed and decreased when administered with a moderate fat meal 9. In the presence of food mean lag times are approximately 45 minutes as compared with 15 minutes when fasting 9. There is also an increase in the average time to achieve peak concentrations to about 2.5 hours in the presence of food as compared with 1.25 hours when fasting 9. This results in an average decrease in Cmax of 20% in addition to a 27% decrease in AUC (range 15% to 50%) when administered with food 9. In young healthy males, the volume of distribution at steady-state is 0.8 to 1.0 L/kg 9.  Despite high binding to plasma proteins (98-99%) - mainly albumin and to a lesser extent α1-acid glycoprotein - diazepam is widely distributed into tissues and crosses the blood-brain barrier and is highly lipid soluble, which causes the initial effects to decrease rapidly as it is redistributed into fat deposits and tissues 9,10,6. Diazepam is N-demethylated by CYP3A4 and 2C19 to the active metabolite N-desmethyldiazepam, and is hydroxylated by CYP3A4 to the active metabolite temazepam 9,10. N-desmethyldiazepam and temazepam are both further metabolized to oxazepam 9,10. Temazepam and oxazepam are further largely eliminated by way of conjugation to glucuronic acid via glucuronidation 9,10. Furthermore, oxidation of diazepam is mediated by cytochrome P450 isozymes; formation of desmethyl-diazepam mainly by CYP2C19 and CYP3A and 3-hydroxy-diazepam (temazepam) and oxazepam by CYP3A. Because CYP2C19 is polymorphic, extensive metabolizers (EMs), and poor metabolizers (PMs) of diazepam can be distinguished 9,10. PMs of diazepam showed significantly lower clearance (12 vs 26 mL/min) and longer elimination half-life (88 vs 41 h) of diazepam than EMs after a single oral dose 9,10. Also, PMs had lower clearance, higher AUC and longer elimination half-life of desmethyl-diazepam 9,10. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Diazepam and its metabolites are excreted mainly in the urine, predominantly as their glucuronide conjugates 9,10,6. Diazepam has a biphasic half-life with an initial rapid distribution phase followed by a prolonged terminal elimination phase of 1 or 2 days; its action is further prolonged by the even longer half-life of 2-5 days of its principal active metabolite, desmethyldiazepam (nordiazepam), the relative proportion of which increases in the body on long-term administration 6. The plasma half-life of diazepam is prolonged in neonates, in the elderly, and in patients with kidney or liver disease 6. The clearance of diazepam is 20 to 30 mL/min in young adults 9,10. The symptoms of diazepam overdose are mainly an intensification of the therapeutic effects (ataxia, drowsiness, dysarthria, sedation, muscle weakness, profound sleep, hypotension, bradycardia, nystagmus) or paradoxical excitation 9,10,6. In most cases only observation of vital functions is required 9,10,6. Extreme overdosage may lead to coma, areflexia, cardio-respiratory depression and apnoea, requiring appropriate countermeasures (ventilation, cardiovascular support) 9,10,6. Benzodiazepine respiratory depressant effects are more serious in patients with severe chronic obstructive airways disease 9,10,6. Severe effects in overdose also include rhabdomyolysis and hypothermia 6. Overdose of benzodiazepines in combination with other CNS depressants (including alcohol) may be fatal and should be closely monitored 9. In general, the use of diazepam in women of childbearing potential, and more specifically during known pregnancy, should be considered only when the clinical situation warrants the risk to the fetus 9. The possibility that a woman of childbearing potential may be pregnant at the time of institution of therapy should be considered 9. If this drug is used during pregnancy, or if the patient becomes pregnant while taking this drug, the patient should be apprised of the potential hazard to the fetus 9. Patients should also be advised that if they become pregnant during therapy or intend to become pregnant they should communicate with their physician about the desirability of discontinuing the drug 9. Special care must be taken when diazepam is used during labor and delivery, as high single doses may produce irregularities in the fetal heart rate and hypotonia, poor sucking, hypothermia, and moderate respiratory depression in the neonates 9. With newborn infants it must be remembered that the enzyme system involved in the breakdown of the drug is not yet fully developed (especially in premature infants) 9. Diazepam passes into breast milk 9. Breastfeeding is therefore not recommended in patients receiving diazepam 9. Safety and effectiveness in pediatric patients below the age of 6 months have not been established 9. In elderly patients, it is recommended that the dosage be limited to the smallest effective amount to preclude the development of ataxia or oversedation (2 mg to 2.5 mg once or twice daily, initially to be increased gradually as needed and tolerated) 9. Extensive accumulation of diazepam and its major metabolite, desmethyldiazepam, has been noted following chronic administration of diazepam in healthy elderly male subjects. Metabolites of this drug are known to be substantially excreted by the kidney, and the risk of toxic reactions may be greater in patients with impaired renal function 9. Because elderly patients are more likely to have decreased renal function, care should be taken in dose selection, and it may be useful to monitor renal function 9. Decreases in clearance and protein binding, and increases in volume of distribution and half-life has been reported in patients with cirrhosis 9. In such patients, a 2- to 5- fold increase in mean half-life has been reported 9. Delayed elimination has also been reported for the active metabolite desmethyldiazepam 9. Benzodiazepines are commonly implicated in hepatic encephalopathy 9. Increases in half-life have also been reported in hepatic fibrosis and in both acute and chronic hepatitis 9. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Chase, G.; U.S. Patent 3,102,116; August 27, 1963; assigned to Hoffmann-La Roche Inc. Reeder, E. and Sternbach, L.H.; U.S. Patent 3,109,843; November 5, 1963; assigned to
Hoffmann-La Roche lnc.
Reeder, E. and Sternbach, L.H.; U.S. Patent 3,136,815; June 9, 1964; assigned to Hoffmann-
La Roche Inc.
Reeder, E. and Sternbach, L.H.; US. Patent 3,371,085; February 27, 1968; assigned to
Imipramine | DrugBank Online Imipramine, the prototypical tricyclic antidepressant (TCA), is a dibenzazepine-derivative TCA. TCAs are structurally similar to phenothiazines. They contain a tricyclic ring system with an alkyl amine substituent on the central ring. In non-depressed individuals, imipramine does not affect mood or arousal, but may cause sedation. In depressed individuals, imipramine exerts a positive effect on mood. TCAs are potent inhibitors of serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake. Tertiary amine TCAs, such as imipramine and amitriptyline, are more potent inhibitors of serotonin reuptake than secondary amine TCAs, such as nortriptyline and desipramine. TCAs also block histamine H1 receptors, α1-adrenergic receptors and muscarinic receptors, which accounts for their sedative, hypotensive and anticholinergic effects (e.g. blurred vision, dry mouth, constipation, urinary retention), respectively 5. Imipramine has less sedative and anticholinergic effects than the tertiary amine TCAs, amitriptyline and clomipramine. Imipramine may be used to treat depression and nocturnal enuresis in children Label. Unlabeled indications include chronic and neuropathic pain (including diabetic neuropathy), panic disorder, attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), and post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) 12,11,1,13,14,15,2. For the relief of symptoms of depression and as temporary adjunctive therapy in reducing enuresis in children aged 6 years and older Label.  May also be used off-label to manage panic disorders with or without agoraphobia, as a second line agent for ADHD in children and adolescents, to manage bulimia nervosa, for short-term management of acute depressive episodes in bipolar disorder and schizophrenia, for the treatment of acute stress disorder and posttraumatic stress disorder, and for symptomatic treatment of postherpetic neuralgia and painful diabetic neuropathy 12,11,1,13,14,15,2.  Imipramine is a tricyclic antidepressant with general pharmacological properties similar to those of structurally related tricyclic antidepressant drugs such as amitriptyline and doxepin. While it acts to block both, imipramine displays a much higher affinity for the serotonin reuptake transporter than for the norepinephrine reuptake transporter 5. Imipramine produces effects similar to other monoamine targeting antidepressants, increasing serotonin- and norepinephrine-based neurotransmission. This modulation of neurotransmission produces a complex range of changes in brain structure and function along with an improvement in depressive symptoms. The changes include increases in hippocampal neurogenesis and reduced downregulation of this neurogenesis in response to stress 6. These implicate brain derived neurotrophic factor signalling as a necessary contributor to antidepressant effect although the link to the direct increase in monoamine neurotransmission is unclear. Serotonin reuptake targeting agents may also produce a down-regulation in β-adrenergic receptors in the brain 8. Imipramine works by inhibiting the neuronal reuptake of the neurotransmitters norepinephrine and serotonin 5,10. It binds the sodium-dependent serotonin transporter and sodium-dependent norepinephrine transporter reducing the reuptake of norepinephrine and serotonin by neurons. Depression has been linked to a lack of stimulation of the post-synaptic neuron by norepinephrine and serotonin 7. Slowing the reuptake of these neurotransmitters increases their concentration in the synaptic cleft, producing knock-on effects in protein kinase signalling which is thought to contribute to changes in neurotransmission and brain physiology which relieves symptoms of depression 9.  Rapidly and well absorbed (>95%) after oral administration 3. The primary site of absorption is the small intestine as the basic amine groups are ionized in the acidic environment of the stomach, preventing movement across tissues. Bioavailability ranges from 29-77% due to high inter-individual variability. Peak plasma concentration is usually attained 2-6 hours following oral administration. Absorption is unaffected by food.  Imipramine has a high apparent volume of distribution of 10-20 L/kg 3. The drug is known to accumulate in the brain at concentrations 30-40 times that in systemic circulation. Imipramine is 60-96% bound to plasma proteins in circulation 3. It is known to bind albumin, α1-acid glycoprotein, and lipoproteins. Imipramine is nearly exclusively metabolized by the liver 3. Imipramine is converted to desipramine by CYP1A2, CYP3A4, CYP2C19. Both imipramine and desipramine are hydroxylated by CYP2D6 4. Desipramine is an active metabolite. Minor metabolic pathways include dealkylation to form an imidodibenzyl product as well as demethylation of desipramine to didemethylimipramine and subsequent hydroxylation 3. Less than 5% of orally administered imipramine is excreted unchanged. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Imipramine is primarily excreted in the urine with less than 5% present as the parent compound 3 Imipramine has a mean half life of 12 h. Its active metabolite, desipramine has a mean half life of 22.5 h 3. Imipramine has a mean clearance of 1 L/h/kg. Its active metabolite, desipramine has a mean clearance of 1.8 L/h/kg 3. The anticholinergic actvity of imipramine can produce dry mucous membranes, blurred vision, increased intraocular pressure, hyperthermia, constipation, adynamic ileus, urinary retention, delayed micturition, and dilation of the urinary tract 16. Central nervous system and neuromuscular effects include drowsiness, lethargy, fatigue, agitation, excitement, nightmares, restlessness, insomnia, confusion, disturbed concentration, disorientation, delusions, and hallucinations. Effects on the GI tract include anorexia, nausea and vomiting, diarrhea, abdominal cramps, increases in pancreatic enzymes, epigastric distress, stomatitis, peculiar taste, and black tongue. Rarely agranulocytosis, thrombocytopenia, eosinophilia, leukopenia, and purpura have occured. Infants whose mothers were receiving tricyclic antidepressants prior to delivery have experienced cardiac problems, irritability, respiratory distress, muscle spasms, seizures, and urinary retention. Serotonin syndrome can occur when used in conjunction with other pro-serotonergic drugs. Rat
- Oral 250 mg/kg
- Intraperitoneal 79mg/kg
- Subcutaneous 250 mg/kg
- Intravenous 15.9 mg/kg Mouse
- Oral 188 mg/kg
- Intraperitoneal 51.6 mg/kg
- Subcutaneous 195 μg/kg
Tofacitinib | DrugBank Online Tofacitinib is an inhibitor of Janus kinases, a group of intracellular enzymes involved in signalling pathways that affect hematopoiesis and immune cell function. It is approved by the FDA for treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis that responds inadequately to methotrexate or in those who are intolerant to methotrexate.
Besides rheumatoid arthritis, tofacitinib has also been studied in clinical trials for the prevention of organ transplant rejection, and is currently under investigation for the treatment of psoriasis. Known adverse effects include nausea and headache as well as more serious immunologic and hematological adverse effects. Tofacitinib is marketed under the brand name Xeljanz by Pfizer. For the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis which is resistant or intolerant to methotrexate therapy. It may also be used as an adjunct to methotrexate therapy, or other non-biologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDS), when methotrexate alone is not sufficient.  Tofacitinib has also been investigated as a preventative therapy for kidney transplant rejections, and as a treatment for psoriasis, ulcerative colitis, and ankylosing spondylitis.  It is not to be initiated in patients with a history of chronic or recurrent infections, or in the presence of active infection, even if localized, due to reports of serious and sometimes fatal infections (commonly pneumonia, herpes zoster and urinary tract infections). Use of tofacitinib is also discouraged in those who have been, or are likely to be, exposed to TB. An increased likelihood of exposure may be encountered by traveling to certain areas. In addition, tofacitinib is not to be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment, or low hemoglobin (less than 9g/dL). Cautioned is advised when using tofacitinib in patients at risk of gastrointestinal perforation, and in the elderly who are more susceptible to infection.  Tofacitinib targets inflammation present in rheumatoid arthritis by inhibiting the janus kinases involved in the inflammatory response pathway.  In placebo controlled trials of rheumatoid arthritis patients receiving 5mg or 10mg of tofacitinib twice daily, higher ACR20 responses were observed within 2 weeks in some patients (with ACR20 being defined as a minimum 20% reduction in joint pain or tenderness and 20% reduction in arthritis pain, patient disability, inflammatory markers, or global assessments of arthritis by patients or by doctors, according to the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) response criteria list), and improvements in physical functioning greater than placebo were also noted.  Common known adverse effects of tofacitinib include headaches, diarrhea, nausea, nasopharyngitis and upper respiratory tract infection. More serious immunologic and hematological adverse effects have also been noted resulting in lymphopenia, neutropenia, anemia, and increased risk of cancer and infection.  Before initiations of tofacitinib patients should be tested for latent infections of tuberculosis, and should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of infection (fungal, viral, bacterial, or mycobacterial) during therapy. Therapy is not to be started in the presence of active infection, systemic or localized, and is to be interrupted if a serious infection occurs.  Tofacitinib has been associated with an increased risk of lymphomas, such as Epstein-Barr virus associated lymphomas, and other malignancies (including lung, breast, gastric, and colorectal cancers). It is recommended to monitor lymphocytes, neutrophils, hemoglobin, liver enzymes, and lipids.  Tofacitinib use is associated with a rapid decrease in C-reactive protein (CRP), dose dependent decreases in natural killer cells, and dose dependent increases in B cells. Depression in C-reactive protein levels continue after 2 weeks of tofacitinib discontinuation and suggest that pharmacodynamic activity last longer than pharmacokinetic half life.  Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease characterized by a dysregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines including IL7, IL15, IL21, IL6, IFN-alpha, and IFN-beta. (3) Cytokines signalling results in tissue inflammation and joint damage by stimulating the recruitment and activation of immune cells via the janus kinase signalling pathway. Tofacitinib is a partial and reversible janus kinase (JAK) inihibitor that will prevent the body from responding to cytokine signals. By inhibiting JAKs, tofacitinib prevents the phosphorylation and activation of STATs. The JAK-STAT signalling pathway is involved in the transcription of cells involved in hematopoiesis, and immune cell function. Tofacitinib works therapeutically by inhibiting the JAK-STAT pathway to decrease the inflammatory response. However, there is evidence to suggest that it may also achieve efficacy via other pathways as well.  74% oral absorption (absolute bioavailability), with peak plasma concentrations (T  max) achieved in 0.5-1 hour.  Administration with fatty meals does not alter AUC but reduces Cmax by 32%.  Vd= 87L after intravenous administration. Distribution is equal between red blood cells and plasma.  40%, mostly bound to albumin. Metabolized in the liver by CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. Metabolites produced are inactive.  70% metabolized in the liver by CYP3A4 (major) and CYP2C19 (minor).
Metabolites produced are inactive.
30% renally eliminated as unchanged drug.  ~3 hours Minimum lethal dose in rat: 500 mg/kg.
Maximum asymptomatic dose in non human primate: 40 mg/kg.  Lymphatic, immune system, bone marrow and erythroid cell toxicity was seen in animal studies involving rate and monkeys. Doses used in these studies ranged from 1mg/kg/day to 10mg/kg/day, over a duration of 6 weeks to 6 months. Lymphopenia, neutropenia, and anemia is seen in human subjects and may call for an interruption or discontinuation of therapy if severe.  Reduced female fertility in rats was seen at exposures 17 times the maximum recommended human dose. Fertility may be impaired in human females and harm may be caused to unborn child.
Melatonin | DrugBank Online Melatonin is a biogenic amine that is found in animals, plants and microbes. Aaron B. Lerner of Yale University is credited for naming the hormone and for defining its chemical structure in 1958. In mammals, melatonin is produced by the pineal gland. The pineal gland is small endocrine gland, about the size of a rice grain and shaped like a pine cone (hence the name), that is located in the center of the brain (rostro-dorsal to the superior colliculus) but outside the blood-brain barrier. The secretion of melatonin increases in darkness and decreases during exposure to light, thereby regulating the circadian rhythms of several biological functions, including the sleep-wake cycle. In particular, melatonin regulates the sleep-wake cycle by chemically causing drowsiness and lowering the body temperature. Melatonin is also implicated in the regulation of mood, learning and memory, immune activity, dreaming, fertility and reproduction. Melatonin is also an effective antioxidant. Most of the actions of melatonin are mediated through the binding and activation of melatonin receptors. Individuals with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) may have lower than normal levels of melatonin. A 2008 study found that unaffected parents of individuals with ASD also have lower melatonin levels, and that the deficits were associated with low activity of the ASMT gene, which encodes the last enzyme of melatonin synthesis. Reduced melatonin production has also been proposed as a likely factor in the significantly higher cancer rates in night workers. Used orally for jet lag, insomnia, shift-work disorder, circadian rhythm disorders in the blind (evidence for efficacy), and benzodiazepine and nicotine withdrawal. Evidence indicates that melatonin is likely effective for treating circadian rhythm sleep disorders in blind children and adults. It has received FDA orphan drug status as an oral medication for this use. A number of studies have shown that melatonin may be effective for treating sleep-wake cycle disturbances in children and adolescents with mental retardation, autism, and other central nervous system disorders. It appears to decrease the time to fall asleep in children with developmental disabilities, such as cerebral palsy, autism, and mental retardation. It may also improve secondary insomnia associated with various sleep-wake cycle disturbances. Other possible uses for which there is some evidence for include: benzodiazepine withdrawal, cluster headache, delayed sleep phase syndrome (DSPS), primary insomnia, jet lag, nicotine withdrawal, preoperative anxiety and sedation, prostate cancer, solid tumors (when combined with IL-2 therapy in certain cancers), sunburn prevention (topical use), tardive dyskinesia, thrombocytopenia associated with cancer, chemotherapy and other disorders.  Melatonin is a hormone normally produced in the pineal gland and released into the blood. The essential amino acid L-tryptophan is a precursor in the synthesis of melatonin. It helps regulate sleep-wake cycles or the circadian rhythm. Production of melatonin is stimulated by darkness and inhibited by light. High levels of melatonin induce sleep and so consumption of the drug can be used to combat insomnia and jet lag.
MT1 and MT2 receptors may be a target for the treatment of circadian and non circadian sleep disorders because of their differences in pharmacology and function within the SCN. SCN is responsible for maintaining the 24 hour cycle which regulates many different body functions ranging from sleep to immune functions Melatonin is a derivative of tryptophan. It binds to melatonin receptor type 1A, which then acts on adenylate cylcase and the inhibition of a cAMP signal transduction pathway. Melatonin not only inhibits adenylate cyclase, but it also activates phosphilpase C. This potentiates the release of arachidonate. By binding to melatonin receptors 1 and 2, the downstream signallling cascades have various effects in the body. The melatonin receptors are G protein-coupled receptors and are expressed in various tissues of the body. There are two subtypes of the receptor in humans, melatonin receptor 1 (MT1) and melatonin receptor 2 (MT2). Melatonin and melatonin receptor agonists, on market or in clinical trials, all bind to and activate both receptor types.The binding of the agonists to the receptors has been investigated for over two decades or since 1986. It is somewhat known, but still not fully understood. When melatonin receptor agonists bind to and activate their receptors it causes numerous physiological processes.
MT1 receptors are expressed in many regions of the central nervous system (CNS): suprachiasmatic nucleus of the hypothalamus (SNC), hippocampus, substantia nigra, cerebellum, central dopaminergic pathways, ventral tegmental area and nucleus accumbens. MT1 is also expressed in the retina, ovary, testis, mammary gland, coronary circulation and aorta, gallbladder, liver, kidney, skin and the immune system. MT2 receptors are expressed mainly in the CNS, also in the lung, cardiac, coronary and aortic tissue, myometrium and granulosa cells, immune cells, duodenum and adipocytes.
Antazoline | DrugBank Online Antazoline is a 1st generation antihistamine with anticholinergic activity. It is used to relieve nasal congestion. It is also formulated as eye drops with naphazoline to relieve allergic conjunctivitis. Used to relieve nasal congestion and in eye drops, usually in combination with naphazoline, to relieve the symptoms of allergic conjunctivitis. Antazoline is a histamine H1 receptor antagonist. It selectively bind to but does not activate histamine H1 receptors, thereby blocking the actions of endogenous histamine. Antazoline binds to the histamine H1 receptor. This blocks the action of endogenous histamine, which subsequently leads to temporary relief of the negative symptoms brought on by histamine. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Miescher, K. and Klarer, W.; US. Patent 2,449,241; September 14,1948: assigned to Ciba
Lurasidone | DrugBank Online Lurasidone is an atypical antipsychotic developed by Dainippon Sumitomo Pharma. It was approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for treatment of schizophrenia on October 29, 2010 and is currently pending approval for the treatment of bipolar disorder in the United States. Treatment of schizophrenia.  Lurasidone is a benzothiazol derivative that is an antagonist and binds with high affinity to Dopamine-2 (D2) (Ki = 0.994 nM), 5-HT2A (Ki = 0.47 nM) receptors, and 5-HT7 receptors (Ki = 0.495 nM). It also binds with moderate affinity to alpha-2C adrenergic receptors (Ki = 10.8 nM) and is a partial agonist at 5-HT1A receptors (Ki = 6.38 nM). Its actions on histaminergic and muscarinic receptors are negligible.  Lurasidone is an atypical antipsychotic that is a D2 and 5-HT2A (mixed serotonin and dopamine activity) to improve cognition. It is thought that antagonism of serotonin receptors can improve negative symptoms of psychoses and reduce the extrapyramidal side effects that are often associated with typical antipsychotics.  Lurasidone is readily absorbed and quickly reaches maximal concentrations (Cmax) within 1-4 hours. When taken with food, there is a two-fold increase in exposure and time to maximal concentration is increased by 0.5-1.5 hours. This occurs regardless of fat or caloric content.
Bioavailability = 9-19%.  6173 L  ~99% bound to serum proteins.  Lurasidone is metabolized by CYP3A4 in which its major active metabolite is referred to as ID-14283 (25% of parent exposure). Its two minor metabolites are referred to as ID14326 and ID11614 which make up 3% and 1% of parent exposure respectively. Its two non-active metabolites are referred to as ID-20219 and ID-20220.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Urine (~9%) and feces (~80%)  40 mg dose= 18 hours
Ticagrelor | DrugBank Online Ticagrelor, or AZD6140, was first described in the literature in 2003.4,5 Ticagrelor is an ADP derivative developed for its P2Y12 receptor antagonism.5 Unlike clopidogrel, ticagrelor is not a prodrug.5 It is marketed by Astra Zeneca as Brilinta in the US6 and Brilique or Possia in the EU,7. Ticagrelor was granted EMA approval on 3 December 2010.7
Hyaluronic acid | DrugBank Online Hyaluronic acid (HA) is an anionic, nonsulfated glycosaminoglycan distributed widely throughout connective, epithelial, and neural tissues. It is unique among glycosaminoglycans in that it is nonsulfated, forms in the plasma membrane instead of the Golgi, and can be very large, with its molecular weight often reaching the millions. One of the chief components of the extracellular matrix, hyaluronic acid contributes significantly to cell proliferation and migration, and may also be involved in the progression of some malignant tumors. Used to treat knee pain in patients with joint inflammation (osteoarthritis). It is usually used in patients who have not responded to other treatments such as acetaminophen, exercise, or physical therapy. Hyaluronic acid may also be used in plastic surgery to reduce wrinkles on the face or as a filler in other parts of the body. May be used in ophthalmology to assist in the extraction of cataracts, the implantation of intraocular lenses, corneal transplants, glaucoma filtration, retinal attachment and in the treatment of dry eyes. Finally, hyaluronic acid is also used to coat the bladder lining in treating interstitial cystitis. Hyaluronic acid is similar to a substance that occurs naturally in the joints. It may work by acting as a lubricant and shock absorber in the joint, helping the knee to move smoothly, thereby lessening pain. Hyaluronic acid performs its activities as a tissue lubricant and hence, it is thought to be key in the modulation of interactions between adjacent tissues. Hyaluronic acid is a polysaccharide which is distributed widely in the extracellular matrix of connective tissue in man. It forms a viscoelastic solution in water which makes it suitable for aqueous and vitreous humor in ophthalmic surgery. It is suggested to provide mechanical protection for ocular tissues and cell layers due to its high viscosity. The elasticity of the solutions of hyaluronic acid can assist in the absorption of mechanical stress and the generation of a protective buffer for the tissues. This viscoelasticity enables maintenance of a deep chamber during surgical manipulation since the solution does not flow out of the open anterior chamber.  In the area of wound healing, hyaluronic acid acts as a protective vehicle that allows the transport of peptide growth factors and other structural proteins to the site of action. After promoting the transport of key molecules, it is enzymatically degraded and the transported proteins are released to promote tissue repair. Hyaluronic acid is being used intra-articularly to treat osteoarthritis. Cell receptors that have been identified for hyaluronic acid fall into three main groups: CD44, Receptor for Hyaluronan-mediated motility (RHAMM) and intracellular adhesion molecule-1 (ICAM-1). CD44 mediates cell interaction with hyaluronic acid and the binding of the two functions as an important part in various physiologic events, such as cell aggregation, migration, proliferation and activation; cell-cell and cell-substrate adhesion; endocytosis of hyaluronic acid, which leads to hyaluronic acid catabolism in macrophages; and assembly of petircellular matrices from HA and proteoglycan. CD44 has two important roles in skin, regulation of keratinocyte proliferation in response to extracellular stimuli and the maintenance of local hyaluronic acid homeostasis. ICAM-1 is known mainly as a metabolic cell surface receptor for hyaluronic acid, and this protein may be responsible mainly for the clearance of hyaluronic acid from lymph and blood plasma, which accounts for perhaps most of its whole-body turnover. Ligand binding of this receptor, thus, triggers a highly coordinated cascade of events that includes the formation of an endocytotic vesicle, its fusion with primary lysosomes, enzymatic digestion to monosaccharides, active transmembrane transport of these sugars to cell sap, phosphorylation of GlcNAc and enzymatic deacetylation. ICAM-1 may also serve as a cell adhesion molecule, and the binding of hyaluronic acid to ICAM-1 may contribute to the control of ICAM-1-mediated inflammatory activation. Hyaluronic acid is absorbed and diffuses slowly out of the injection site. Hyaluronic acid is degraded by a family of enzymes called hyaluronidases. Hyaluronic acid is eliminated via the canal of Schlemm. >2400 mg/kg (mouse, oral, sodium salt)
>4000 mg/kg (mouse, subcutaneous, sodium salt)
Tafluprost | DrugBank Online A prostaglandin analogue ester prodrug used topically (as eye drops) to control the progression of glaucoma and in the management of ocular hypertension. Chemically, tafluprost is a fluorinated analog of prostaglandin F2-alpha. Tafluprost was approved for use in the U.S. on February 10, 2012. Tafluprost is indicated for reducing elevated intraocular pressure in patients with open-angle glaucoma or ocular hypertension. Tafluprost is a novel prostaglandin analog with a high affinity for the fluoroprostaglandin (FP) receptor PGF2α. Tafluprost has an affinity for the FP receptor that is approximately 12 times higher than that of the carboxylic acid of latanoprost, but with almost no potential to bind to other receptors.  Tafluprost acid is a prostanoid selective FP receptor agonist that is believed to reduce the intraocular pressure (IOP) by increasing the outflow of aqueous humor. Studies in animals and humans suggest that the main mechanism of action is increased uveoscleral outflow. Following instillation, tafluprost is absorbed through the cornea and is hydrolyzed to the biologically active acid metabolite, tafluprost acid. Tafluprost is an ester which makes the drug lipophillic enough to be quickly absorbed through. When administered to the eye, the peak plasma concentration (Cmax) and time to peak plasma concentration (Tmax) of tafluprost acid in healthy subjects was 26 pg/mL and 10 minutes respectively. a
Temocapril | DrugBank Online Temocapril is a prodrug-type angiotensin-I converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor not approved for use in the United States, but is approved in Japan and South Korea. Temocapril can also be used in hemodialysis patients without risk of serious accumulation.  Temocapril is an ACE inhibitor primarily indicated in the treatment of hypertension and congestive heart failure, diabetic nephropathy, and improvement of prognosis for coronary artery diseases (including acute myocardial infarction).  Temocapril is a prodrug of its active metabolite (and diacid form) temocaprilat which contains a thiazepine ring. Temocaprilat has slightly higher potency than enalaprilat in ACE inhibition isolated from rabbit lung. ACE inhibitors exert their hemodynamic effect mainly by inhibiting the renin-angiotensin system. They also modulate sympathetic nervous system activity and increase prostaglandin synthesis. They cause mainly vasodilation and mild natriuresis without affecting heart rate and contractility.). When compared with other Angiotensin-converting Enzyme Inhibitors, temocapril's advantages include a rapid onset of action and what research suggests is tighter vascular ACE binding than enalaprilat.  Temocapril is rapidly absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract and converted into the
Ulipristal | DrugBank Online Ulipristal is a selective progesterone receptor modulator used for the purposes of emergency contraception (Ella) and for the treatment of uterine fibroids (Fibristal). It is a derivative of 19-norprogesterone and has both antagonistic and partial agonist activity at the progesterone receptor. It also binds to glucocorticoid receptor, however compared to mifepristone (a progesterone receptor antagonist), ulipristal is more tolerable and has lower glucocorticoid activity and better binding affinity.  Ulipristal is currently recommended as first line therapy for emergency contraception, due to improved efficacy and similar side effect profile as compared to the traditional use of levonorgestrel or the Yuzpe regimen. The exact mechanism of action for ulipristal is still currently debated, though there is evidence that it functions by inhibiting ovulation. A recent systematic review proclaimed that the majority of available evidence demonstrates an inhibitory effect on ovulation rather than a post-fertilization effect on the endometrium, which has been heavily debated due to ethical concerns related to abortion (Rosato et al, 2016). Nevertheless, current and ongoing research into the agent's mechanism of action as an emergency contraceptive continue to provide potentially plausible evidence that ulipristal may, in fact, elicit activity on the endometrium that prevents embryo implantation 10,11,12. As the product Ella (available in Canada and the US), ulipristal is indicated for use as emergency contraception after unprotected intercourse or possible contraceptive failure when administered within 120 hours (5 days) after unprotected intercourse or a known or suspected contraceptive failure. As the product Fibristal (available in Canada), ulipristal is indicated for treatment of the signs and symptoms of uterine fibroids in adult women. Ulipristal is a selective, reversible progestin receptor modulator and its tissue targets include the uterus, cervix, ovaries, and hypothalamus. Ulipristal may act as an agonist or antagonist in the presence or absence of progesterone based on the tissue target. If given mid-follicular phase, development of the follicle growth is delayed and estradiol concentrations decrease. If given at the time when luteinizing hormone peaks, follicular rapture is delayed by several days. If given early-luteal phase, a decrease in endometrial thickness can be observed.  The exact mechanism of action of ulipristal has been heavily debated Label 9,10,11,12. On one hand, the majority of official prescribing information labels, monographs, and prior research studies for ulipristal indicated as an emergency contraceptive suggest that its primary mechanism of action revolves around inhibiting or delaying ovulation by suppressing surges in LH that result in the postponement of follicular rupture 9,13,15. Conversely, some of the latest investigations pertaining to ulipristal's mechanism of action as an emergency contraceptive propose that it principally elicits its action by preventing embryo implantation, as opposed to preventing ovulation 10,11,12. Although previous investigations have shown that ulipristal essentially has the ability to prevent ovulation equivalent to placebo (ie. null effect or ability) when administered during LH peaks one to two days before ovulation, the agent still demonstrates a stable and consistently high contraceptive effect of approximately >=80% when used at this time 10. Subsequently, current studies attempt to investigate how ulipristal could elicit emergency contraception via ovulation prevention under circumstances where ovulation had already clearly been observed 10,11,12. Endometrial biopsy samples studied from such circumstances in such investigations subsequently show that the administered ulipristal causes endometrial tissue to become inhospitable and unsuitable for embryo implantation where a variety of genes characteristic of receptive, pro-gestational endometrium are downregulated 10,11,12.  Nevertheless, most if not all proposed mechanisms commonly agree that ulipristal ultimately demonstrates its pharmacological effects by binding to human progesterone receptors and prevents natural, endogenous progesterone from occupying such receptors 9,13,15,10,11,12. Regardless, however, considering current and on-going research into ulipristal's ability to prevent embryo implantation, the notion that the medication can elicit post-fertilization effects potentially raises alerts and/or ethical debates over the use of ulipristal owing to potential abortifacient activity 9,10,11,12, which is considered to be on par or equipotent to that of mifepristone 14. Attention should be drawn to the fact that some prescribing information, however, such as the US FDA label for ulipristal indicated for emergency contraception, has included new supplementary commentary since 2018 that directly warns about ulipristal not being indicated for termination of existing pregnancies and suggesting that ulipristal use may confer alterations to the endometrium that may affect implantation and contribute to efficacy Label.  In the treatment of fibroids, ulipristal has been shown to exert direct actions on fibroids reducing their size through inhibition of cell proliferation and induction of apoptosis. Tmax, healthy subjects, single oral dose = 60-90 minutes;
Cmax, healthy subjects, single oral dose = 176 ± 89 ng/mL;
Tesamorelin | DrugBank Online Tesamorelin is a stabilized synthetic peptide analogue of the hypothalamic peptide, Growth Hormone Releasing Hormone (GHRH) indicated for the reduction of excess abdominal fat in HIV-infected patients with lipodystrophy. Lipodystrophy is a metabolic condition characterized by insulin resistance, fat redistribution, and hyperlipidemia associated with antiretroviral therapy for HIV infection. Tesamorelin acetate is a synthetic analogue of human hypothalamic Growth Hormone Releasing Factor (hGRF) indicated to induce and maintain a reduction of excess abdominal fat in HIV-infected patients with lipodystrophy.  Tesamorelin stimulates growth hormone secretion, and subsequently increases IGF-1 and IGFBP-3 levels. By acting on the pituitary cells in the brain, tesamorelin stimulates production and release of the endogenous hormone (hGRF). Tesamorelin therapy predisposes the patient to glucose intolerance and can also increase the risk of type 2 diabetes, so the drug is contraindicated in pregnancy.  The absolute bioavailability was determined to be less than 4% in healthy adult subjects following a 2 mg subcutaneous dose. 9.4±3.1 L/kg in healthy subjects.
10.5±6.1 L/kg in HIV-infected patients. No formal metabolism studies have been performed in humans. 26 and 38 minutes in healthy subjects and HIV-infected patients, respectively. Diarrhea, congestive heart failure, peripheral neuropathy, and loss of
mobility were the four serious adverse events reported during
Eribulin | DrugBank Online Eribulin is a microtubule inhibitor indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer who have previously received at least two chemotherapeutic regimens for the treatment of metastatic disease. Eribulin was isolated from the marine sponge Halichondria okadai. Eribulin is also being investigated for use in the treatment of advanced solid tumors 2. For the treatment of patients with metastatic breast cancer who have previously received at least two chemotherapeutic regimens for the treatment of metastatic cancer.  Linear Eribulin inhibits the growth phase of microtubules without affecting the shortening phase and sequesters tubulin into nonproductive aggregates. Eribulin exerts its effects via a tubulin-based antimitotic mechanism leading to G2/M cell-cycle block, disruption of mitotic spindles, and, ultimately, apoptotic cell death after prolonged mitotic blockage. [FDA] 43 L/m2 to 114 L/m2 49 to 65%.  There are no major human metabolites of eribulin, CYP3A4 negligibly metabolizes eribulin in vitro. Eribulin is eliminated primarily in feces unchanged.  about 40 hours 1.16 L/hr/m2 to 2.42 L/hr/m2 (dose range of 0.25 mg/m2 to 4.0 mg/m2). [FDA] Peripheral neuropathy was the most common toxicity leading to discontinuation of eribulin (5 percent). [Richard Pazdur, M.D., director of the FDA's Division of Oncology Drug Products.]
Gabapentin enacarbil | DrugBank Online Gabapentin enacarbil is marketed under the name Horizant. It is a prodrug of gabapentin, and indicated in adults for the treatment of Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) and postherpetic neuralgia (PHN). For the treatment of adult Restless Legs Syndrome (RLS) and postherpetic neuralgia (PHN). Since gabapentin enacarbil is a prodrug of gabapentin, it's physiological effects are the same as gabapentin. Concerning PHN, gabapentin prevents allodynia and hyperalgesia. Although the exact mechanism of action of gabapentin in RLS and PHN is unknown, it is presumed to involve the descending noradrenergic system, resulting in the activation of spinal alpha2-adrenergic receptors.  Gabapentin enacarbil is absorbed in the intestines by active transport through the proton-linked monocarboxylate transporter, MCT-1.  The volume of distribution is 76L. Gabapentin plasma protein binding is less than 3%. Gabapentin enacarbil does not interact with any of the major cytochrome P450
Ruxolitinib | DrugBank Online Ruxolitinib is a janus-associated kinase inhibitor indicated to treat bone marrow cancer, specifically intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis. FDA approved on November 16, 2011. Treatment of intermediate or high-risk myelofibrosis, including primary myelofibrosis, post-polycythemia vera (post-PV) myelofibrosis and post-essential thrombocythemia (post-ET) myelofibrosis. [Lexicomp] Myeolofibrosis is the proliferation of abnormal bone marrow stem cells which cause fibrosis (the excessive formation of connective tissue). The mean half-maximal inhibitory concentration (IC50) for JAK 1 and JAK 2 are 2.8 nmol/L and 3.3 nmol/L respectively. After administration of ruxolitinib, a decrease in levels of phosphorylated STAT (marker for JAK activity) in a dose-dependent manner can be observed. Pharmacodynamic resistance has not been observed.  Ruxolitinib is a kinase inhibitor that is selective for the Janus Associated Kinases (JAK) 1 and 2. These kinases are responsible for the mediation of cytokine and growth factor signalling which in turn effect immune function and hematopoiesis. The signalling process involves signal transducers and transcription activators (STAT) which modulate gene expression. Patients with myelofibrosis have abnormal JAK1 and JAK2 activity thus ruxolitinib works to regulate this.  Absorption is rapid and is not affected by food.
Cmax, 15 mg, healthy subject = 649 nmol/L;
Tmax, 15 mg, healthy subject = 1.5 hours;
Teriflunomide | DrugBank Online Teriflunomide is the active metabolite of leflunomide, and it acts as an immunomodulatory agent by inhibiting pyrimidine synthesis. It is marketed under the name Aubagio® and is indicated for the treatment of multiple sclerosis, specifically relapsing forms. The FDA label states an important warning about the risk of hepatoxicity and teratogenicity for patients using teriflunomide. Used in the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS). Teriflunomide is an immunomodulatory agent that decreases the amount of activated CNS lymphocytes, which results in anti-inflammatory and antiproliferative effects. The exact mechanism by which teriflunomide acts in MS is not known. What is known is that teriflunomide prevents pyrimidine synthesis by inhibiting the mitochondrial enzyme
Vemurafenib | DrugBank Online Vemurafenib is a competitive kinase inhibitor with activity against BRAF kinase with mutations like V600E.2 It exerts its function by binding to the ATP-binding domain of the mutant BRAF.3 Vemurafenib was co-developed by Roche and Plexxikon and it obtained its FDA approval on August 17, 2011, under the company Hoffmann La Roche. After approval, Roche in collaboration with Genentech launched a broad development program. 8 Vemurafenib is approved since 2011 for the treatment of metastatic melanoma with a mutation on BRAF in the valine located in the exon 15 at codon 600, this mutation is denominated as V600E.3 The V600E mutation, a substitution of glutamic acid for valine, accounts for 54% of the cases of cutaneous melanoma.4
Gadoxetic acid | DrugBank Online Gadoxetic acid (gadoxetate) is a paramagnetic gadolinium-containing contrast agent in which its salt form, gadoxetate disodium, is used for intravenous injection. Ethoxybenzyl diethylenetriaminepentaacetic acid is the moiety that chelates with a gadolinium ion and forms a stable complex with it to make up the drug. It is marketed by Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals and FDA approved on July 3, 2008. Gadoxetate is used as a contrast medium for magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) to detect and characterize lesions in the liver.  Gadoxetate disodium is an amphipathic compound in which gadoxetate is hydrophillic and its moiety, the ethoxybenyzl group, is lipophillic. Consequently, gadoxetate disodium has a biphasic mode of action in which it first distributes into the extracellular space after bolus injection and then hepatocytes selectively takes up the drug.  When gadoxetate disodium is placed in an external magnetic field, a large magnetic moment is produced. As a result, a magnetic field is induced around the tissue. The water protons in the vicinity are disrupted such that the change the proton density and spin characteristics are detected and visualized by a device.  Total volume of distribution at steady state is 0.21 L/kg. Gadoxetate disodium cannot diffuse through the blood brain barrier. The two transporters that gadoxetate disodium can enter the hepatocyte through are OATP1B1 and OATP1B3. Gadoxetate disodium may also exit the heptaocyte and go back into sinusoidal space via active transport through multidrug resistance protein 3 and 4.  <10% protein bound. Because it is more protein bound than other gadolinium-based contrast agents, gadoxetate disodium has increased T1 relaxivity. This results in an enhancement of the signal.  Gadoxetate disodium is not metabolized.  Gadoxetate disodium is eliminated equally via urine and feces. Multidrug resistance protein 2 actively transports/excretes gadoxetate disodium into the bile.  Terminal elimination half-life, healthy subjects, adults = 0.91 - 0.95 hours  Clearance may be lower in older patients.
Total serum clearance (CLtot) = 250 mL/min;
Renal clearance (CLr) = 120 mL/min  LD50, oral, rat = 18100 mg/kg;
LD50, oral, mouse = 14500 mg/kg;
LD50, IV, rat = 3600 - 7300 mg/kg;
LD50, IV, mouse = 5400 - 10900 mg/kg;
Aflibercept | DrugBank Online Aflibercept is a recombinant protein composed of the binding domains of two human vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF) receptors fused with the Fc region of human immunoglobulin gamma 1 (IgG1). Structurally, Aflibercept is a dimeric glycoprotein with a protein molecular weight of 96.9 kilo Daltons (kDa). It contains approximately 15% glycosylation to give a total molecular weight of 115 kDa. All five putative N-glycosylation sites on each polypeptide chain predicted by the primary sequence can be occupied with carbohydrate and exhibit some degree of chain heterogeneity, including heterogeneity in terminal sialic acid residues, except at the single unsialylated site associated with the Fc domain. Aflibercept, as an ophthalmic agent, is used in the treatment of macular edema following Central Retinal Vein Occlusion (CRVO) and neovascular Age-Related Macular Degeneration (AMD). Ziv-aflibercept, under the brand name Zaltrap, was developed as an injection for treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer. FDA approved in November 18, 2011 and EMA approved in November 2012. The opthalmic agent is used for the treatment of neovascular (wet) age-related mascular degeneration (AMD) and macular edema following central retinal vein occulsion (CRVO). The systemic injection, known as ziv-aflibercept, in combination with 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan-(FOLFIRI), is for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer that is resistant to or progressed following treatment with oxaliplatin.  Compared to other anti-VEGF drugs like bevacizumab and ranibizumab, aflibercept has a higher binding affinity to VEGF-A (Kd = 0.5 pM).  Ablibercept is a recombinant fusion protein that acts as a decoy receptor for the ligands, vascular endothelial growth factor-A (VEGF-A) and placental growth factor (PIGF). It prevents these ligands to binding to endothelial receptors, VEGFR-1 and VEGFR-2, to suppress neovascularization and decrease vascular permeability. This ultimately will slow vision loss or the progression of metastatic colorectal cancer.  In patients with wet AMD and CRVO, the mean peak plasma concentration (Cmax) was 0.02 mcg/mL and 0.05 mcg/mL respectively. These concentrations were reached in 1 to 3 days. Aflibercept did not accumulate when administered as repeated doses intravitreally every 4 weeks.  After intravenous injection of aflibercept, the volume of distribution is 6 L.  Because aflibercept is a protein, it is expected to be broken down via proteolysis into smaller peptides and amino acids. The cytochrome P450 enzyme system is not involved in the metabolism of aflibercept.  Via kidney and liver Intravitreal half-life= 7.13 days in humans;
Terminal elimination half-life of free aflibercept in plasma was 5 to 6 days after IV injection of 2 - 4 mg/kg dose.  When cancer patients were given 2-9 mg/kg every 2 or 3 week; 1 hour IV infusion of aflibercept the typical estimated clearances were as follows:
CL of free aflibercept (CLf) = 0.88 L/day;
CL of bound aflibercept (CLf) = 0.19 L/day;
Asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi | DrugBank Online Erwinaze (asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi) contains an asparaginase specific enzyme derived from Erwinia chrysanthemi 4. Specifically, this L-asparaginase is a tetrameric enzyme consisting of four identical subunits, each having a molecular weight of about 35 kDa 4. The activity of Erwinaze is expressed in terms of International Units. It is an antineoplastic agent and was FDA approved in November 19, 2011 4. Asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi is for the treatment of patients with acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) that have developed a hypersensitivity to E. coli-derivied asparaginase 4. It is a component of a multi-agent chemotherpeutic regimen 4 for the treatment of the aforementioned disease and is considered second- or third- line treatment in European and American protocols 1.  Asparagine is ordinarily found incorporated into most endogenous proteins 6. In its absence however, protein synthesis is halted - which in turn also results in the inhibition of the RNA and DNA synthesis necessary for cellular proliferation 6.  One commonality between Acute Lymphoblastic Leukaemia (ALL), Acute Myeloid Leukaemia (AML), and Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (especially the lymphoblastic form) is the absence of asparagine synthetase activity in the neoplastic cells associated with these conditions 6. These neoplastic cells are subsequently dependent upon exogenous asparagine for their proliferation 6. The anti-neoplastic function of L-asparaginase is consequently a result of the sustained depletion of exogenous asparagine 6. In particular, Erwinia L-asparaginase catalyses the deamination of asparagine to aspartic acid and the release of an ammonia molecule 6. In addition, asparaginase also demonstrates a significant glutaminase activity in which it is capable of catalyzing the deamination of glutamine to glutamate and the release of an ammonia molecule 6. Since glutamine may lead to alternative asparagine synthesis, the ability for asparaginase to facilitate glutamine depletion may complement asparagine depletion 6. The exact potential to such glutaminase activity, however, remains unknown 6. Asparaginase Erwinia chrysanthemi catalyzes the deamidation of asparagine to aspartic acid and ammonia, resulting in a reduction in circulating levels of exogenous asparagine in the plasma 4. The mechanism of action of Erwinia asparaginase is thought to be based on the inability of leukemic cells to synthesize asparagine due to lack of asparagine synthetase activity, resulting in cytotoxicity specific for leukemic cells that depend on an exogenous source of the amino acid asparagine for their protein metabolism and survival 4. The absorption of Erwinia asparaginase is predominantly via denaturation followed by peptidase digestion within GI tract 7. The volume of distribution for Erwinia asparaginase is 5 L/m2 7. The partitioning of Erwinia L-asparaginase between lymph and blood shows that this enzyme, in contrast to the E. coli derivative, does not penetrate the capillary endothelium well
Carfilzomib | DrugBank Online Carfilzomib is an injectable antineoplastic agent (IV only). Chemically, it is a modified tetrapeptidyl epoxide and an analog of epoxomicin. It is also a selective proteasome inhibitor. FDA approved on July 20, 2012. Carfilzomib is indicated for the treatment of patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least two prior therapies including bortezomib and an immunomodulatory agent and have demonstrated disease progression on or within 60 days of completion of the last therapy. Approval is based on response rate.  Intravenous carfilzomib administration resulted in suppression of proteasome chymotrypsin-like activity when measured in blood 1 hour after the first dose. On Day 1 of Cycle 1, proteasome inhibition in peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) ranged from 79% to 89% at 15 mg/m2, and from 82% to 83% at 20 mg/m2. In addition, carfilzomib administration resulted in inhibition of the LMP2 and MECL1 subunits of the immunoproteasome ranging from 26% to 32% and 41% to 49%, respectively, at 20 mg/m2. Proteasome inhibition was maintained for ≥ 48 hours following the first dose of carfilzomib for each week of dosing. Resistance against carfilzomib has been observed and although the mechanism has not been confirmed, it is thought that up-regulation of P-glycoprotein may be a contributing factor. Furthermore, studies suggest that carfilzomib is more potent than bortezomib.  Carfilzomib is made up of four modified peptides and acts as a proteasome inhibitor. Carfilzomib irreversibly and selectively binds to N-terminal threonine-containing active sites of the 20S proteasome, the proteolytic core particle within the 26S proteasome. This 20S core has 3 catalytic active sites: the chymotrypsin, trypsin, and caspase-like sites. Inhibition of the chymotrypsin-like site by carfilzomib (β5 and β5i subunits) is the most effective target in decreasing cellular proliferation, ultimately resulting in cell cycle arrest and apoptosis of cancerous cells. At higher doses, carfilzomib will inhibit the trypsin-and capase-like sites.  Cmax, single IV dose of 27 mg/m^2 = 4232 ng/mL;
AUC, single IV dose of 27 mg/m^2 = 379 ng•hr/mL;
Carfilzomib does not accumulation in the systemic. At doses between 20 and 36 mg/m2, there was a dose-dependent increase in exposure. Vd, steady state, 20 mg/m^2 = 28 L  Over the concentration range of 0.4 - 4 micromolar, carfilzomib was 97% protein bound.  Carfilzomib was rapidly and extensively metabolized by the liver. The predominant metabolites were the peptide fragments and the diol of carfilzomib which suggests that the main metabolic pathways are peptidase cleavage and epoxide hydrolysis. The cytochrome P450 enzyme system is minimally involved in the metabolism of carfilzomib. All metabolites are inactive.  Following intravenous administration of doses ≥ 15 mg/m^2, carfilzomib was rapidly cleared from the systemic circulation with a half-life of ≤ 1 hour on Day 1 of Cycle 1. Systemic clearance = 151 - 263 L/hour. As this value exceeds hepatic blood flow, it suggests that carfilozmib is cleared extrahepatically.  Most commonly reported adverse reactions (incidence ≥ 30%) are fatigue, anemia, nausea, thrombocytopenia, dyspnea, diarrhea, and pyrexia. The two dose limiting toxicities are thrombocytopenia and febrile neutropenia.
Arbaclofen Placarbil | DrugBank Online Arbaclofen Placerbil is a prodrug of Arbaclofen, which is a selective gamma-amino-butyric acid type B receptor agonist and the R-enantiomer of baclofen. It was discovered, and has been patented by XenoPort as a new chemical entity with an improved pharmacokinetic profile compared to baclofen, which allows for sustained release properties.  Arbaclofen Placerbil was believed to have therapeutic potential in treating gastroesophogeal reflux disease (GERD) and plasticity; however due to discouraging clinical trial results, the drug was abandoned by XenoPort in 2011 for the treatment of GERD. On May 20th, 2013, XenoPort announced plans to terminate the development of Arbaclofen Placerbil for the treatment of multiple sclerosis. Investigated for the treatment of spasticity in multiple sclerosis, acute back spasms, and GERD.  R-baclofen is postulated to aid in spasticity by acting as an agonist of the inhibitory gamma aminobutyric acid neurotransmission pathway.  Unlike baclofen, absorption of R-baclofen(arbaclofen) is not limited to the upper small intestine. The ability of arbaclofen to be absorbed throughout the gastrointestinal tract allowed for the development of the sustained release formulation, arbaclofen placarbil (AP).  In one study of AP absorption in 10 healthy volunteers, one 20mg oral dose of AP, in the presence of food, resulted in a Tmax of 5.05h.  The oral bioavailability of R-baclofen in rats when AP was dosed at 10mg/kg was 44 ± 12%, and when dosed at 1mg/kg, oral bioavailability was 68 ± 6%.  In monkeys and dogs, the oral bioavailability of R-baclofen when AP was orally dosed was high: 94 ± 16%, and 92 ± 7%, respectively. In comparison, when oral R-balofen was dosed oral bioavailability was 39 ± 21% in monkeys and 49 ± 20% in dogs. Colonic absorption studies measuring R-baclofen bioavailability post intracolonic dosing in rats and monkeys, have revealed low bioavailability with the administration of R-baclofen (7 ± 3% and 3 ± 2%, respectively), and significantly higher R-baclofen bioavailability with intracolonic dosing of AP suspension ( 37 ± 9% and 37 ± 15%, in rats and monkeys respectively).
Intracolonic dosing of AP suspension also resulted in high biolavailability of R-baclofen in dogs (77 ± 23%).  Absorption throughout the intestine is both passive and active and occurs via the monocarboxylate type 1 transporter. Radioactive labeling has shown AP to be widely distributed throughout the body. Tissue distribution occurs mostly to the kidneys and liver. In experimental studies using human liver S9 Arbaclofen placarbil was not shown to be a substrate for CYP1A2, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, and CYP3A4.  Arbaclofen placarbil, the acyloxyalkyl carbamate prodrug of R-arbaclofen, is believed to undergo hydrolysis by the esterase enzyme human carboxylesterase-2 into the parent amine, R-baclfen. Carbon dioxide, isobutyric acid, isobutyraldehyde, are also expected to be produced in equimolar quantities.  The productions of isobutyric acid has been confirmed in vitro untilizing mass spectrometry and gas chromatography. 84-88% renal elimination as R-baclofen. Less than 1% fecal elimination. (2)  IV bolus administration of AP to rats showed that AP was converted to R-baclofen with a half life of 6 minutes.  Blood clearance of an IV bolus of AR in rats resulted in a total blood clearance of 15.81 ± 10.2 L/h/kg in rats.
Mirabegron | DrugBank Online Mirabegron is a beta-3 adrenergic receptor agonist for the management of overactive bladder. It is an alternative to antimuscarinic drugs for this indication. FDA approved on June 28, 2012. Mirabegron is a beta-3 adrenergic agonist indicated for the treatment of overactive bladder (OAB) with symptoms of urge urinary incontinence, urgency, and urinary frequency. Mirabegron has little effect on the mean maximum flow rate or mean detrusor pressure at maximum flow rate in patients with lower urinary tract symptoms and bladder outlet obstruction. Furthermore, mirabegron increases blood pressure in a dose dependent manner. However, this effect is reversible when mirabegron is discontinued. Mirabegron also increases heart rate in a dose dependent manner. The dose in which half-maximal efficacy is demonstrated is 25 mg. Comparatively, the dose in which maximal efficacy is demonstrated is 100 mg.  Mirabegron is a potent and selective agonist for beta-3 adrenergic receptors. Once beta-3 receptors are activated, the detrusor smooth muscle relaxes to allow for a larger bladder capacity. At higher doses (200 mg), there is a potential for mirabegron to activate beta-1 and beta-2 adrenergic receptors.  The absolute bioavailability increases from 29% at a dose of 25 mg to 35% at a dose of 50 mg. Mean Cmax and AUC increase more than dose proportionally. This relationship is more apparent at doses above 50 mg. Females generally have a lower magnitude of increase of Cmax and AUCtau compared to males when doses of mirabegron doubles or quadruples. Steady state concentrations are achieved within 7 days of once daily dosing with mirabegron. After once daily administration, plasma exposure of mirabegron at steady state is approximately double that seen after a single dose.
Tmax, oral dose, healthy subjects= 3.5 hours; Vd, steady state, IV dose = 1670 L. This high value suggests that mirabegron is extensively distributed in the body.  71% bound to plasma proteins. It binds to albumin and alpha-1-acid glycoprotein with moderate affinity.  Mirabegron is metabolized via multiple pathways involving dealkylation, oxidation, (direct) glucuronidation, and amide hydrolysis. The major circulating entity is mirabegron. Two major and inactive metabolites (phase 2 glucuronides) are produced. Although mirabegron is a substrate for CYP2D6 and CYP3A4, its role in the elimination of the drug is limited. Studies also suggest that CYP3A4 is the main enzyme that facilitates the oxidative metabolism of the drug. Furthermore, butylcholinesterase, uridine diphospho-glucuronosyltransferases (UGT), and possibly alcohol dehydrogenase may be involved with the metabolism of mirabegron.  Mirabegron is eliminated via urine (radiolabeled drug: 55%; unchanged drug: ~25%) and feces (radiolabeled drug: 34%; unchanged drug: 0%). Renal elimination of mirabegron is primarily through active tubular secretion and glomerular filtration. Extent of elimination via urine is dose-dependent.  Terminal elimination half-life = 50 hours  Total body clearance (CLtot), IV dose = 57 L/h;
Peginesatide | DrugBank Online Peginesatide is a synthetic peptide attached to polyethylene glycol for the treatment of anemia. The polyethylene glycol moiety helps make the drug less immunogenic and prolongs its plasma half-life. Chemically, peginesatide is designed to mimic the pharmacological activity of erythropoietin, but is not a replica of the structure itself. Peginesatide consists of two 21-amino acid chains that are covalently bonded by a linker derived from iminodiacetic acid and β-alanine. FDA approved March 27, 2012. Peginesatide is used for the treatment of anemia due to chronic kidney disease (CKD) in adult patients on dialysis  Peginesatide increases the reticulocyte count and levels of hemoglobin. It also increases RBC count, hematocrit, and soluble transferrin receptor protein in a dose-dependent manner.  Peginesatide binds to and activates the human erythropoietin receptor and stimulates erythropoiesis in human red cell precursors in vitro. Tmax, SubQ dose = 48 hours;
Bioavailability, SubQ dose = 46%;
Peginesatide does not accumulate when administered every 4 weeks following intravenous or subcutaneous administration.  IV dose, dialysis patients = 34.9 ± 13.8 mL/kg;  Peginesatide does not bind to serum albumin or lipoprotein as demonstrated in in-vitro studies.  Preclinical radiolabeled peginesatide study indicated that peginesatide is not metabolized.  Peginesatide administered intravenously or subcutaneously is primarily excreted via urine. Most of the excreted dose is in the form of unchanged drug. Elimination from the plasma is biphasic and rapid from vascular compartments. In contrast, the drug is selectively retained in sites of erythropoiesis like the bone marrow.  IV dose, healthy subjects = 25.0 ± 7.6 hours;
SubQ, healthy subjects = 53.0 ± 17.7 hours;
Tofacitinib | DrugBank Online Tofacitinib is an inhibitor of Janus kinases, a group of intracellular enzymes involved in signalling pathways that affect hematopoiesis and immune cell function. It is approved by the FDA for treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis that responds inadequately to methotrexate or in those who are intolerant to methotrexate.
Besides rheumatoid arthritis, tofacitinib has also been studied in clinical trials for the prevention of organ transplant rejection, and is currently under investigation for the treatment of psoriasis. Known adverse effects include nausea and headache as well as more serious immunologic and hematological adverse effects. Tofacitinib is marketed under the brand name Xeljanz by Pfizer. For the treatment of moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis which is resistant or intolerant to methotrexate therapy. It may also be used as an adjunct to methotrexate therapy, or other non-biologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDS), when methotrexate alone is not sufficient.  Tofacitinib has also been investigated as a preventative therapy for kidney transplant rejections, and as a treatment for psoriasis, ulcerative colitis, and ankylosing spondylitis.  It is not to be initiated in patients with a history of chronic or recurrent infections, or in the presence of active infection, even if localized, due to reports of serious and sometimes fatal infections (commonly pneumonia, herpes zoster and urinary tract infections). Use of tofacitinib is also discouraged in those who have been, or are likely to be, exposed to TB. An increased likelihood of exposure may be encountered by traveling to certain areas. In addition, tofacitinib is not to be used in patients with severe hepatic impairment, or low hemoglobin (less than 9g/dL). Cautioned is advised when using tofacitinib in patients at risk of gastrointestinal perforation, and in the elderly who are more susceptible to infection.  Tofacitinib targets inflammation present in rheumatoid arthritis by inhibiting the janus kinases involved in the inflammatory response pathway.  In placebo controlled trials of rheumatoid arthritis patients receiving 5mg or 10mg of tofacitinib twice daily, higher ACR20 responses were observed within 2 weeks in some patients (with ACR20 being defined as a minimum 20% reduction in joint pain or tenderness and 20% reduction in arthritis pain, patient disability, inflammatory markers, or global assessments of arthritis by patients or by doctors, according to the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) response criteria list), and improvements in physical functioning greater than placebo were also noted.  Common known adverse effects of tofacitinib include headaches, diarrhea, nausea, nasopharyngitis and upper respiratory tract infection. More serious immunologic and hematological adverse effects have also been noted resulting in lymphopenia, neutropenia, anemia, and increased risk of cancer and infection.  Before initiations of tofacitinib patients should be tested for latent infections of tuberculosis, and should be closely monitored for signs and symptoms of infection (fungal, viral, bacterial, or mycobacterial) during therapy. Therapy is not to be started in the presence of active infection, systemic or localized, and is to be interrupted if a serious infection occurs.  Tofacitinib has been associated with an increased risk of lymphomas, such as Epstein-Barr virus associated lymphomas, and other malignancies (including lung, breast, gastric, and colorectal cancers). It is recommended to monitor lymphocytes, neutrophils, hemoglobin, liver enzymes, and lipids.  Tofacitinib use is associated with a rapid decrease in C-reactive protein (CRP), dose dependent decreases in natural killer cells, and dose dependent increases in B cells. Depression in C-reactive protein levels continue after 2 weeks of tofacitinib discontinuation and suggest that pharmacodynamic activity last longer than pharmacokinetic half life.  Rheumatoid arthritis is an autoimmune disease characterized by a dysregulation of pro-inflammatory cytokines including IL7, IL15, IL21, IL6, IFN-alpha, and IFN-beta. (3) Cytokines signalling results in tissue inflammation and joint damage by stimulating the recruitment and activation of immune cells via the janus kinase signalling pathway. Tofacitinib is a partial and reversible janus kinase (JAK) inihibitor that will prevent the body from responding to cytokine signals. By inhibiting JAKs, tofacitinib prevents the phosphorylation and activation of STATs. The JAK-STAT signalling pathway is involved in the transcription of cells involved in hematopoiesis, and immune cell function. Tofacitinib works therapeutically by inhibiting the JAK-STAT pathway to decrease the inflammatory response. However, there is evidence to suggest that it may also achieve efficacy via other pathways as well.  74% oral absorption (absolute bioavailability), with peak plasma concentrations (T  max) achieved in 0.5-1 hour.  Administration with fatty meals does not alter AUC but reduces Cmax by 32%.  Vd= 87L after intravenous administration. Distribution is equal between red blood cells and plasma.  40%, mostly bound to albumin. Metabolized in the liver by CYP3A4 and CYP2C19. Metabolites produced are inactive.  70% metabolized in the liver by CYP3A4 (major) and CYP2C19 (minor).
Metabolites produced are inactive.
30% renally eliminated as unchanged drug.  ~3 hours Minimum lethal dose in rat: 500 mg/kg.
Maximum asymptomatic dose in non human primate: 40 mg/kg.  Lymphatic, immune system, bone marrow and erythroid cell toxicity was seen in animal studies involving rate and monkeys. Doses used in these studies ranged from 1mg/kg/day to 10mg/kg/day, over a duration of 6 weeks to 6 months. Lymphopenia, neutropenia, and anemia is seen in human subjects and may call for an interruption or discontinuation of therapy if severe.  Reduced female fertility in rats was seen at exposures 17 times the maximum recommended human dose. Fertility may be impaired in human females and harm may be caused to unborn child.
Regorafenib | DrugBank Online Regorafenib is an orally-administered inhibitor of multiple kinases. It is used for the treatment of metastatic colorectal cancer, advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumours, and hepatocellular carcinoma. FDA approved on September 27, 2012. Approved use of Regorafenib was expanded to treat Hepatocellular Carcinoma in April 2017. Regorafenib is indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (CRC) who have been previously treated with fluoropyrimidine-, oxaliplatin- and irinotecan-based chemotherapy, an anti-VEGF therapy, and, if KRAS wild type, an anti-EGFR therapy. Regorafenib is also indicated for the treatment of patients with locally advanced, unresectable or metastatic gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST) who have been previously treated with imatinib mesylate and sunitinib malate. Regorafenib is also indicated for the treatment of patients with hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) previously treated with sorafenib.2 Regorafenib is a small molecule inhibitor of multiple membrane-bound and intracellular kinases involved in normal cellular functions and in pathologic processes such as oncogenesis, tumor angiogenesis, and maintenance of the tumor microenvironment. In in vitro biochemical or cellular assays, regorafenib or its major human active metabolites M-2 and M-5 inhibited the activity of RET, VEGFR1, VEGFR2, VEGFR3, KIT, PDGFR-alpha, PDGFR-beta, FGFR1, FGFR2, TIE2, DDR2, TrkA, Eph2A, RAF-1, BRAF, BRAFV600E , SAPK2, PTK5, and Abl at concentrations of regorafenib that have been achieved clinically. In in vivo models, regorafenib demonstrated anti-angiogenic activity in a rat tumor model, and inhibition of tumor growth as well as anti-metastatic activity in several mouse xenograft models including some for human colorectal carcinoma. Cmax = 2.5 μg/mL;
Tmax = 4 hours;
AUC = 70.4 μgh/mL;
Cmax, steady-state = 3.9 μg/mL;
AUC, steady-state = 58.3 μgh/mL;
The mean relative bioavailability of tablets compared to an oral solution is 69% to 83%. Regorafenib undergoes enterohepatic circulation with multiple plasma concentration peaks observed across the 24-hour dosing interval.  Regorafenib is highly bound (99.5%) to human plasma proteins. Regorafenib is metabolized by CYP3A4 and UGT1A9. The main circulating metabolites of regorafenib measured at steady-state in human plasma are M-2 (N-oxide) and M-5 (N-oxide and N-desmethyl), both of them having similar in vitro pharmacological activity and steady-state concentrations as regorafenib. M-2 and M-5 are highly protein bound (99.8% and 99.95%, respectively). Regorafenib is an inhibitor of P-glycoprotein Label, while its active metabolites M-2 (N-oxide) and M-5 (N-oxide and N-desmethyl) are substrates of P-glycoprotein 1.  Approximately 71% of a radiolabeled dose was excreted in feces (47% as parent compound, 24% as metabolites) and 19% of the dose was excreted in urine (17% as glucuronides) within 12 days after administration of a radiolabeled oral solution at a dose of 120 mg. Regorafenib, 160 mg oral dose = 28 hours (14 - 58 hours);
M2 metabolite, 160 mg oral dose = 25 hours (14-32 hours);
Aclidinium | DrugBank Online Aclidinium is an anticholinergic for the long-term management of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). It has a much higher propensity to bind to muscarinic receptors than nicotinic receptors. FDA approved on July 24, 2012. Aclidinium bromide inhalation powder is indicated for the long-term, maintenance treatment of bronchospasm associated with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), including chronic bronchitis and emphysema. Aclidinium does not prolong the QTc interval or have significant effects on cardiac rhythm.  Aclidinium is a long-acting, competitive, and reversible anticholinergic drug that is specific for the acetylcholine muscarinic receptors. It binds to all 5 muscarinic receptor subtypes to a similar affinity. Aclidinium's effects on the airways are mediated through the M3 receptor at the smooth muscle to cause bronchodilation. Prevention of acetylcholine-induced bronchoconstriction effects was dose-dependent and lasted longer than 24 hours. Bioavailability, healthy subjects = 6%;
T max, healthy subjects = 10 minutes;
Time to steady state, healthy subjects = 2 days;  Following IV administration, the volume of distribution is 300 L  The major route of metabolism of aclidinium bromide is hydrolysis, which occurs both chemically and enzymatically by esterases in the plasma. Aclidinium bromide is rapidly and extensively hydrolyzed to its alcohol and dithienylglycolic acid derivatives, neither of which binds to muscarinic receptors and are pharmacologically inactive.  Intravenously administered radiolabelled aclidinium bromide was administered to healthy volunteers and was extensively metabolized with 1% excreted as unchanged aclidinium. Approximately 54% to 65% of the radioactivity was excreted in urine and 20% to 33% of the dose was excreted in feces. The combined results indicated that almost the entire aclidinium bromide dose was eliminated by hydrolysis. After dry powder inhalation, urinary excretion of aclidinium is about 0.09% of the dose.  Plasma half-life = 2.4 minutes (indicating that aclidinium is very rapidly hydrolyzed in plasma into its two inactive metabolites and has a low chance of causing systemic side effects).
Enzalutamide | DrugBank Online Enzalutamide is an androgen receptor inhibitor for the treatment of castration-resistant prostate cancer. FDA approved on August 31, 2012. Enzalutamide is indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer who have previously received docetaxel. Resitance to enzalutamide therapy has been observed. This may occurred due to an upregulation of NF-κB2/p52.  Enzalutamide is a competitive androgen receptor inhibitor that effects multiple stages of the signalling pathway. It is able to inhibit androgen binding to its receptor, androgen receptor nuclear translocation, and subsequent interaction with DNA. As a result, proliferation of prostate cancer cells decreases which ultimately leads to apoptosis and decreased tumour volume.  The pharmacokinetic profile of enzalutamide and N-desmethyl enzalutamide (its major active metabolite) is described by a linear two-compartment model with first-order absorption. Enzalutamide also accumulates. Food does not affect its absorption.
Tmax, prostate cancer patients = 1 hour (range of 0.5-3 hours);
Cmax, steady state, enzalutamide = 16.6 μg/mL;
Cmax, steady state, N-desmethyl enzalutamide = 12.7 μg/mL;
Teduglutide | DrugBank Online Teduglutide is a glucagon-like peptide-2 (GLP-2) analogue. It is made up of 33 amino acids and is manufactured using a strain of Escherichia coli modified by recombinant DNA technology. Teduglutide differs from GLP-2 by one amino acid (alanine is substituted by glycine). The significance of this substitution is that teduglutide is longer acting than endogenous GLP-2 as it is more resistant to proteolysis from dipeptidyl peptidase-4. FDA approved on December 21, 2012. Treatment of short bowel syndrome (SBS), malabsorption associated with the removal of the intestine, in adults patients who are dependent on parenteral support.  An enhancement of gastrointestinal fluid absorption (750-1000 mL/day) was observed following daily administrations of teduglutide. An increase in villus height and crypt depth of the intestinal mucosa was also noted. A decrease in fecal weight has also been observed. Teduglutide does not prolong the QTc interval.  Teduglutide is an analog of naturally occurring human glucagon-like peptide-2 (GLP-2), a peptide secreted by L-cells of the distal intestine in response to meals. GLP-2 increases intestinal and portal blood flow and inhibit gastric acid secretion. Teduglutide binds to the glucagon-like peptide-2 receptors located in enteroendocrine cells, subepithelial myofibroblasts and enteric neurons of the submucosal and myenteric plexus. This causes the release of insulin-like growth factor (IGF)-1, nitric oxide and keratinocyte growth factor (KGF). These growth factors may contribute to the increase in crypt cell growth and surface area of the gastric mucosa. Ultimately, absorption through the intestine is enhanced.  The pharmacokinetic profile of teduglutide (when administered subcutaneously) is described by a one-compartment model with first order absorption in the abdomen, arm, and thigh. With escalating doses, teduglutide demonstrates linear pharmacokinetics.
Absolute bioavailability, SubQ = 88%;
Tmax, SubQ = 3-5 hours;
Cmax, 0.05 mg/kg SubQ, SBS patients = 36 ng/mL;
AUC, 0.05 mg/kg SubQ, SBS patients = 0.15 µg•hr/mL;
Teduglutide does not accumulate following multiple subcutaneous administrations.  Vd, healthy subjects = 103 mL/kg  Although a formal investigation has not been conducted, it is expected because teduglutide is a peptide-based drug, it will be degraded into smaller peptides and amino acids via catabolic pathways. The cytochrome P450 enzyme system is not involved in the metabolism of this drug.  Urine  Terminal half-life, healthy subjects = 2 hours;
Terminal half-life, SBS patients = 1.3 hours  Plasma clearance, healthy subjects = 123 mL/hr/kg;
Ponatinib | DrugBank Online Ponatinib is a novel Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase inhibitor that is especially effective against the T315I mutation for the treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia. FDA approved on December 14, 2012. Ponatinib is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with chronic phase, accelerated phase, or blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) that is resistant or intolerant to prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy or Philadelphia chromosome positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ALL) that is resistant or intolerant to prior tyrosine kinase inhibitor therapy. Ponatinib is a multi-target kinase inhibitor. Its primary cellular target is the Bcr-Abl tyrosine kinase protein which is constitutively active and promotes the progression of CML. This protein arises from the fused Bcr and Abl gene- what is commonly known as the Philadelphia chromosome. Ponatinib is unique in that it is especially useful in the treatment of resistant CML because it inhibits the tyrosine kinase activity of Abl and T315I mutant kinases. The T315I mutation confers resistance in cells as it prevents other Bcr-Abl inhibitors from binding to the Abl kinase. Other targets that ponatinib inhibits are members of the VEGFR, PDGFR, FGFR, EPH receptors and SRC families of kinases, and KIT, RET, TIE2, and FLT3. A decrease in tumour size expressing native or T315I mutant BCR-ABL have been observed in rats.  The absolute bioavailability of ponatinib is unknown. Peak concentrations of ponatinib are observed within 6 hours after Iclusig oral administration. Food does not affect absorption of food. The aqueous solubility of ponatinib is pH dependent, with higher pH resulting in lower solubility.
When 45 mg of ponatinib is given to cancer patients, the pharmacokinetic parameters are as follows:
Cmax = 73 ng/mL;
Raxibacumab | DrugBank Online Raxibacumab is a human IgG1λ monoclonal antibody that binds the protective antigen (PA) component of B. anthracis toxin. Raxibacumab has a molecular weight of approximately 146 kilodaltons. Raxibacumab is produced by recombinant DNA technology in a murine cell expression system. FDA approved on December 14, 2012. Raxibacumab is indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with inhalational anthrax due to Bacillus anthracis in combination with appropriate antibacterial drugs, and for prophylaxis of inhalational anthrax when alternative therapies are not available or are not appropriate.  Raxibacumab is a monoclonal antibody that binds free PA with an affinity equilibrium dissociation constant (Kd) of 2.78 ± 0.9 nM. Raxibacumab inhibits the binding of PA to its cellular receptors, preventing the intracellular entry of the anthrax lethal factor and edema factor, the enzymatic toxin components responsible for the pathogenic effects of anthrax toxin. It does not have direct antibacterial activity.  Raxibacumab does not cross the blood-brain-barrier. When a single IV dose of 40 mg/kg was administered to healthy, male and female human subjects, the pharmacokinetic parameters are as follows:
Cmax = 1020.3 ± 140.6 mcg/mL;
AUCinf = 15845.8 ± 4333.5 mcg·day/mL.
Bioavailability is also dependent on site of injection. When administered to the vastus lateralis, the bioavailability is 71-85%. When administered to the gluteus maximus, the bioavailability is 50-54%.  Steady state volume of distribution exceeded plasma volume. This suggests that there is some distribution into the tissues.  Mean terminal elimination half-lives of raxibacumab are as follows:
IM dose = 15-19 days;
Bedaquiline | DrugBank Online Bedaquiline is a bactericidal antimycobacterial drug. Chemically it is a diarylquinoline. FDA approved on December 28, 2012. Bedaquiline is indicated as part of combination therapy in adults (≥ 18 years) with pulmonary multi-drug resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB).  Bedaquiline is primarily subjected to oxidative metabolism leading to the formation of N-monodesmethyl metabolite (M2). M2 is not thought to contribute significantly to clinical efficacy given its lower average exposure (23% to 31%) in humans and lower antimycobacterial activity (4 to 6-fold lower) compared to the parent compound. M2 concentrations appeared to correlate with QT prolongation. Bedaquiline inhibits mycobacterial TB at a minimal inhibitory concentration (MIC) from 0.002-0.06 μg/ml and with a MIC50 of 0.03 μg/ml. Furthermore, bacteria that have smaller ATP stores (usually in dormant, nonreplicating bacilli) are more susceptible to bedaquiline.  Bedaquiline is a diarylquinoline antimycobacterial drug that inhibits the proton pump of mycobacterial ATP (adenosine 5'-triphosphate) synthase, an enzyme that is essential for the generation of energy in Mycobacterium tuberculosis. Bacterial death occurs as a result of bedaquiline.  Tmax, oral dose = 5 hours;
Formestane | DrugBank Online Formestane was the first selective, type I, steroidal aromatase inhibitor used in the treatment of estrogen-receptor positive breast cancer in post-menopausal women. Formestane suppresses estrogen production from anabolic steroids or prohormones. Formestane is also a prohormone of 4-hydroxytestosterone, an active steroid with weak androgenic activity and mild aromatase inhibitor activity. It is listed as a prohibited substance by the World Anti-Doping Agency for use in athletes.  Formestane has poor oral bioavailability, and thus must be administered fortnightly (bi-weekly) by intramuscular injection. Some clinical data has suggested that the clinically recommended dose of 250mg was too low. With the discovery of newer, non-steroidal and steroidal, aromatase inhibitors which were orally active and less expensive than formestane, formestane lost popularity.  Currently, formestane (categorized as an anti-estrogenic agent) is prohibited from use in sports in accordance to the regulations of the World Anti-Doping Agency. It is not US FDA approved, and the intramuscular injection form of formestane (Lentaron) which was approved in Europe has been withdrawn. For the treatment of estrogen-receptor positive breast cancer in post-menopausal women. By significantly reducing estrogen levels in the bloodstream, formestane may exhibit antitumor activity.  In one trial involving 147 postmenopausal females with advanced breast cancers resistant to standard therapies, 22% of patients achieved a partial response, while another 20% achieved disease stabilization. [3] In comparative trials comparing a non-steroidal aromatase inhibitor, anastrozole, with formestane, it was found that anastrozole was more effective and consistent at suppressing estrogen levels in the body. However, these results were of unverified clinical significance. [5]  Formestane is a second generation, irreversible, steroidal aromatase inhibitor. It inhibits the aromatase enzyme responsible for converting androgens to estrogens, thereby preventing estrogen production.  Breast cancer may be estrogen sensitive or insensitive.
A majority of breast cancers are estrogen sensitive. Estrogen sensitive breast cancer cells depend on estrogen for viability. Thus removal of estrogen from the body can be an effective treatment for hormone sensitive breast cancers. Formestane has been targeted specifically for the treatment of postmenopausal women. Unlike premenopausal women who produce most estrogen in the ovaries, postmenopausal women produce most estrogen in peripheral tissues with the help of the aromatase enzyme. Formestane, an aromatase inhibitor, can thus help to decrease the local production of estrogen by blocking the aromatase enzyme in peripheral tissues (ie. adispose tissue of the breast) to treat hormone sensitive breast cancer.  Formestane has poor oral bioavailability, but is fully bioavailable when administered via the established intramuscular route. The AUC after an intravenous pulse dose does not vary considerably from that of an intramuscular dose.  Within 24-48 h of the first dose of intramuscular formestane, a C(max) of 48.0 +/- 20.9 nmol/l was achieved in one study. [2]  Vd = 1.8 L/kg; widely distributed to organs and tissues when delivered intravenously. [2] Hepatic metabolism. Phase I of metabolism is mainly reductive in nature. The reduction products 3 beta-hydroxy-5alpha-androstane-4,17-dione and 3alpha-hydroxy-5beta-androstane-4,17-dione are produced, and further reduced.
Glycerol phenylbutyrate | DrugBank Online Glycerol phenylbutyrate is a nitrogen-binding agent. Chemically, it is a triglyceride in which three molecules of phenylbutyrate are linked to a glycerol backbone. FDA approved on February 1, 2013. Glycerol phenylbutyrate is a nitrogen-binding agent for the chronic management of adult and pediatric patients ≥2 years of age with urea cycle disorders (UCDs) who cannot be managed by dietary protein restriction and/or amino acid supplementation alone.  Glycerol phenylbutyrate prolongs the QTc interval.  The toxic accumulation of ammonia in the blood and brain arise from urea cycle disorders in which patients are deficient in critical enzymes or transporters that are involved in the synthesis of urea from ammonia. Glycerol phenylbutyrate is a prodrug - the major metabolite, phenylacetate (PAA) is the molecule that binds to nitrogen. PAA conjugates with glutamine (which contains 2 molecules of nitrogen) via acetylation in the liver and kidneys to form phenylacetylglutamine (PAGN), which is excreted by the kidneys. PAGN, like urea, contains 2 moles of nitrogen and provides an alternate vehicle for waste nitrogen excretion.  Glycerol phenylbutyrate is a prodrug in which phenylbutyrate (PBA) is released from the glycerol backbone by lipases in the gastrointestinal tract. PBA then undergoes beta-oxidtion to form PAA. When a single oral dose of 2.9 mL/m2 of Glycerol phenylbutyrate is given to fasting adult subjects, the pharmacokinetic parameters are as follows:
Tmax: PBA = 2 hours; PAA = 4 hours; PAGN = 4 hours.
Cmax: PBA = 37.0 µg/mL; PAA = 14.9 µg/mL; PAGN = 30.2 µg/mL.
In healthy subjects, the hydrolysis of glycerol phenylbutyrate is incomplete, but to what extent is unknown.
When glycerol phenylbutyrate is given to adult UCD patients, maximum plasma concentrations at steady state (Cmaxss) of PBA, PAA, and PAGN occurred at 8 h, 12 h, and 10 h, respectively, after the first dose in the day. Intact glycerol phenylbutyrate was not detectable in plasma in UCD patients. PBA = 80.6% to 98.0%;
PAA = 37.1% to 65.6%;
Pomalidomide | DrugBank Online Pomalidomide, an analogue of thalidomide, is an immunomodulatory antineoplastic agent. FDA approved on February 8, 2013. Pomalidomide is indicated for patients with multiple myeloma who have received at least two prior therapies including lenalidomide and bortezomib and have demonstrated disease progression on or within 60 days of completion of the last therapy. Pomalidomide is more potent than thalidomide (100-times) and lenalidomide (10-times).  Promalidomide is an immunomodulatory agent with antineoplastic activity. It is shown to inhibit the proliferation and induce apoptosis of various tumour cells. Furthermore, promalidomide enhances T cell and natural killer (NK) cell-mediated immunity and inhibited the production of pro-inflammatory cytokines, like TNF-alpha or IL-6, by monocytes. The primary target of promalidomide is thought to be the protein cereblon. It binds to this target and inhibits ubiquitin ligase activity. It is also a transcriptional inhibitor of COX2.  Pomalidomide is generally well absorbed. The major circulating component is the parent compound.
Tmax, single oral dose = 2 -3 hours.
When 4 mg of promalidomide is given to patients with multiple myeloma, the steady-state pharmacokinetic parameters are as follows:
AUC(T) = 400 ng.hr/mL;
Cmax = 75 ng/mL.
Promalidomide accumulates following multiple doses.  Mean apparent volume of distribution (Vd/F), steady-state = 62 - 138 L 12-44% protein bound. It is not concentration dependent.  Promalidomide is hepatically metabolized by CYP1A2 and CYP3A4. The metabolites are 26-fold less active than the parent compound. Minor contributions from CYP2C19 and CYP2D6 have been observed in vitro.  When a single oral dose (2mg) is given to healthy subjects, 73% of the dose was eliminated in urine. 15% of the dose was eliminated in feces. 2% and 8% of the dose eliminated unchanged as pomalidomide in urine and feces, respectively.  Healthy subjects = 9.4 hours;
Dabrafenib | DrugBank Online Dabrafenib mesylate (Tafinlar) is a reversible ATP-competitive kinase inhibitor and targets the MAPK pathway. It was approved on May 29, 2013 for the treatment of melanoma 7. In May 2018, Tafinlar (dabrafenib) and Mekinist (Trametinib) in combination have been approved to treat anaplastic thyroid cancer caused by an abnormal BRAF V600E gene 5. Tafinlar is a kinase inhibitor that was initially indicated as a single agent for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with BRAF V600E mutation as detected by an FDA-approved test Label. Tafinlar in combination with Trametinib is indicated for the treatment of patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with BRAF V600E or V600K mutations as detected by an FDA-approved test. The use in combination is based on the demonstration of durable response rate. Improvement in disease-related symptoms or overall survival has not been demonstrated for Tafinlar in combination with trametinib Label. In May 2018, Tafinlar (dabrafenib) and Mekinist (Trametinib) have been approved in combination to treat anaplastic thyroid cancer caused by an abnormal BRAF V600E gene 3. Dabrafenib causes an inhibition of phosphorylated extracellular signal-regulated kinase (ERK). This indicates a decrease in cell proliferation. Furthermore, within 24 hours of administration, downstream mediators of the MAPK pathway were inhibited Label. The melanoma approval for use with Mekinist is based on results from COMBI-AD, a Phase III study of 870 patients with Stage III BRAF V600E/K mutation-positive melanoma treated with Tafinlar + Mekinist after complete surgical resection. Patients received doses of Tafinlar (150 mg BID) + Mekinist (2 mg QD) combination (n = 438) or matching placebos (n = 432). After a median follow-up of 2.8 years, the primary endpoint of relapse-free survival (RFS) was met 5. Thus, Tafinlar in combination with Mekinist treats melanoma.  In the case of thyroid cancer, Dabrafenib plus Trametinib is the first regimen demonstrated to have potent clinical activity in BRAF V600E–mutated anaplastic thyroid cancer and is well tolerated. These findings represent a meaningful therapeutic advance for this orphan disease 8. Dabrafenib is an orally bioavailable inhibitor of B-raf (BRAF) protein with antineoplastic activity. Dabrafenib selectively binds to and inhibits the activity of B-raf, which may inhibit the proliferation of tumor cells which contain a mutated BRAF gene. B-raf belongs to the raf/mil family of serine/threonine protein kinases and plays a role in regulating the MAP kinase/Extracellular Signal-regulated Kinases signaling pathway, which may be constitutively activated due to BRAF gene mutations Label. After oral administration, median time to achieve peak plasma concentration (Tmax) is 2 hours. Mean absolute bioavailability of oral dabrafenib is 95% 2. Apparent volume of distribution (Vd/F) = 70.3 L Label.
Insulin human | DrugBank Online Human Insulin, also known as Regular Insulin, is a short-acting form of insulin used for the treatment of hyperglycemia caused by Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes. Human insulin is produced by recombinant DNA technology and is identical to endogenously produced insulin. Typically prescribed for the management of diabetes mellitus, insulin is a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas that promotes glucose metabolism. Insulin is released from the pancreas following a meal to promote the uptake of glucose from the blood into internal organs and tissues such as the liver, fat cells, and skeletal muscle. Absorption of glucose into cells allows for its transformation into glycogen or fat for storage. Insulin also inhibits hepatic glucose production, enhances protein synthesis, and inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis among many other functions. Insulin is an important treatment in the management of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) which is caused by an autoimmune reaction that destroys the beta cells of the pancreas, resulting in the body not being able to produce or synthesize the insulin needed to manage circulating blood sugar levels. As a result, people with T1D rely primarily on exogenous forms of insulin to lower glucose levels in the blood. Insulin is also used in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), another form of diabetes mellitus that is a slowly progressing metabolic disorder caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors that promote chronically elevated blood sugar levels. Without treatment or improvement in non-pharmacological measures such as diet and exercise to lower blood glucose, high blood sugar eventually causes cellular resistance to endogenous insulin, and in the long term, damage to pancreatic islet cells. Insulin is typically prescribed later in the course of T2D, after trying several oral medications such as Metformin, Gliclazide, or Sitagliptin have been tried, when sufficient damage has been caused to pancreatic cells that the body is no longer able to produce insulin on its own.  Marketed as the brand name product Humulin R or Novolin R, human insulin begins to exert its effects within 30 minutes of subcutaneous administration, while peak levels occur 3-4 hours after administration. Due to its quick onset of action, human insulin is considered "bolus insulin" as it provides high levels of insulin in a short period of time to mimic the release of endogenous insulin from the pancreas after meals. Bolus insulin is often combined with once daily, long-acting "basal insulin" such as Insulin detemir, Insulin degludec, and Insulin glargine to provide low concentrations of background insulin that can keep blood sugar stable between meals or overnight. Use of basal and bolus insulin together is intended to mimic the pancreas' production of endogenous insulin, with a goal of avoiding any periods of hypoglycemia. Human insulin is also available in an inhalable form, intended to be used as a bolus meal-time insulin. Exubera was the first inhaled insulin available on the market and was developed by Inhale Therapeutics (later named Nektar Therapeutics). Unfortunately, limited uptake by physicians and patients, poor sales, bulky packaging, and concerns over the possible impact on lung cancer development resulted in Exubera products being withdrawn from the US markets 6. Exubera was followed by Afrezza, a monomeric inhaled insulin developed by Mannkind Corporation, which received FDA approval in 2016. While still available in the US, Afrezza has had similar concerns associated with its use, and had an FDA "black box" warning added to it to warn about use in patients with chronic lung disease. Afrezza does not currently have Health Canada or European Medicines Agency approval for marketing in Canada or the EU.  Human Insulin is a 51 residue peptide hormone produced by recombinant DNA technology by inserting the human insulin gene into Escherichia coli bacteria or Saccharomyces cerevisiae. The structure is identical to native human insulin, with two amino acid chains covalently linked by disulfide bonds.  Human insulin is also available in an intermediate-acting form as NPH (Neutral Protamine Hagedorn) as the marketed products Novolin N and Humulin N. NPH insulin is provided as a crystalline suspension of insulin with protamine and zinc, resulting in an onset of action in 1 to 3 hours, duration of action up to 24 hours, and peak action from 6 to 8 hours. Due to the added crystals, NPH insulin is typically cloudy when compared to other forms of insulin and has a neutral pH. Without an adequate supply of insulin to promote absorption of glucose from the bloodstream, blood sugar levels can climb to dangerously high levels and can result in symptoms such as fatigue, headache, blurred vision, and increased thirst. If left untreated, the body starts to break down fat, instead of glucose, for energy which results in a build-up of ketone acids in the blood and a syndrome called ketoacidosis, which is a life-threatening medical emergency. In the long term, elevated blood sugar levels increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, and diabetic neuropathy. Human insulin is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults and pediatric patients with diabetes mellitus. Insulin is a natural hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas. In non-diabetic individuals, a basal level of insulin is supplemented with insulin spikes following meals. Postprandial insulin spikes are responsible for the metabolic changes that occur as the body transitions from a postabsorptive to absorptive state. Insulin promotes cellular uptake of glucose, particularly in muscle and adipose tissues, promotes energy storage via glycogenesis, opposes catabolism of energy stores, increases DNA replication and protein synthesis by stimulating amino acid uptake by liver, muscle and adipose tissue, and modifies the activity of numerous enzymes involved in glycogen synthesis and glycolysis. Insulin also promotes growth and is required for the actions of growth hormone (e.g. protein synthesis, cell division, DNA synthesis).  The primary activity of insulin is the regulation of glucose metabolism. Insulin promotes glucose and amino acid uptake into muscle and adipose tissues, and other tissues except brain and liver. It also has an anabolic role in stimulating glycogen, fatty acid, and protein synthesis. Insulin inhibits gluconeogenesis in the liver.
Ferric carboxymaltose | DrugBank Online Ferric Carboxymaltose is an iron replacement product and chemically, an iron carbohydrate complex. FDA approved on July 25, 2013. Ferric carboxymaltose is a iron replacement product indicated for the treatment of iron deficiency anemia in adult patients who have intolerance to oral iron or have had unsatisfactory response to oral iron or those who have non-dialysis dependent chronic kidney disease.  When measured using positron emission tomography (PET), the red cell uptake of 59-Fe and 52-Fe from INJECTAFER ranged from 61% to 99%. In patients with iron deficiency, the red cell uptake ranged from 91% to 99%. In patients with renal anemia, the red cell uptake ranged from 61% to 84%.  Ferric carboxymaltose is a colloidal iron (III) hydroxide in complex with carboxymaltose, a carbohydrate polymer that release iron.  When a single dose of 100 to 1000 mg of iron was given to iron deficient patients, the maximum serum concentration (Cmax) was 37 μg/mL to 333 μg/mL. These levels were obtained 15 minutes to 1.21 hours post dose (Tmax).  3 L Renal elimination of iron was negligible.  7 to 12 hours.  The most common adverse reactions (>2%) are nausea, hypertension,
Levomilnacipran | DrugBank Online Levomilnacipran is a selective serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor. Chemically, levomilnacipran is the 1S,2R-enantiomer of milnacipran. FDA approved on July 25, 2013. Levomilnacipran is a serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor and is indicated for the treatment of major depressive disorder (MDD).  Levomilnacipran binds with high affinity to human serotonin (5-HT) and norepinephrine (NE) transporters (Ki = 11 and 91 nM, respectively). It potently inhibits 5-HT and NE reuptake (IC50 = 16 - 19 and 11 nM, respectively). Levomilnacipran does not bind to any other receptors, ion channels, or transporters, including serotonergic (5HT1-7), α- and β adrenergic, muscarinic, or histaminergic receptors and Ca2+, Na+, K+ or Cl- channels to a significant degree. Levomilnacipran did not inhibit monoamine oxidase (MAO). Furthermore, levomilnacipran does not prolong the QTc interval to a clinically relevant extent.  The exact mechanism of the antidepressant action of levomilnacipran is unknown but is thought to be related to the potentiation of serotonin and norephinephrine in the central nervous system through inhibition of reuptake at serotonin and norepinephrine transporters.  The relative bioavailability after administration of the extended-release capsule was 92% when compared to oral solution. Food does not affect the concentration of levomilnacipran. After daily dosing of levomilnacipran (extended-release capsule) the mean Cmax is 341 ng/mL, and the mean steady-state AUC value is 5196 ng·h/mL. The Tmax is 6 - 8 hours after oral administration. Interconversion of stereoisomers does not occur in humans.  22% bound to human plasma protein over concentration range of 10 to 1000 ng/mL.  Hepatic. Levomilnacipran undergoes desethylation to form desethyl levomilnacipran and hydroxylation to form p-hydroxy-levomilnacipran. Desethylation is facilitated primarily by CYP3A4 and by CYP2C8, 2C19, 2D6, and 2J2 to a lesser extent. Both metabolites undergo further conjugation with glucuronide to form conjugates.  Levomilnacipran and its metabolites are eliminated primarily by renal excretion. 58% of the dose is excreted in urine as unchanged levomilnacipran. N-desethyl levomilnacipran is the major metabolite
Riociguat | DrugBank Online Riociguat is a soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC) agonist approved in the USA, Europe and several other regions for patients with group I PAH (pulmonary arterial hypertension) in WHO FC II or III; and for the treatment of patients with inoperable CTEPH (chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension), or persistent/recurrent PH (pulmonary hypertension) after pulmonary endarterectomy in WHO FC II or III. Riociguat is marketed under the brand Adempas® by Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals. Treatment with riociguat costs USD $7,500 for 30 days of treatment. Riociguat is indicated for the treatment of adults with persistent/recurrent chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH), (WHO Group 4) after surgical treatment, or inoperable CTEPH, to improve exercise capacity and WHO functional class.
Riociguat is indicated for the treatment of adults with pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH), (WHO Group 1), to improve exercise capacity, WHO functional class and to delay clinical worsening. Efficacy was shown in patients on Riociguat monotherapy or in combination with endothelin receptor antagonists or prostanoids. Studies establishing effectiveness included predominately patients with WHO functional class II–III and etiologies of idiopathic or heritable PAH (61%) or PAH associated with connective tissue diseases (25%). Riociguat is a stimulator of soluble guanylate cyclase (sGC), an enzyme in the cardiopulmonary system and the receptor for nitric oxide (NO). When NO binds to sGC, the enzyme catalyzes synthesis of the signaling molecule cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP). Intracellular cGMP plays an important role in regulating processes that influence vascular tone, proliferation, fibrosis and inflammation. Pulmonary hypertension is associated with endothelial dysfunction, impaired synthesis of nitric oxide and insufficient stimulation of the NO-sGC-cGMP pathway.  Riociguat has a dual mode of action. It sensitizes sGC to endogenous NO by stabilizing the NO-sGC binding. Riociguat also directly stimulates sGC via a different binding site, independently of NO. Riociguat stimulates the NO-sGC-cGMP pathway and leads to increased generation of cGMP with subsequent vasodilation.  The pharmacokinetics of riociguant are dose proportional from 0.5 mg to 2.5 mg. The absolute bioavailability is approximately 94%. After oral administration, peak plasma concentrations were achieved within 1.5 hours. Food does not affect the bioavailability of riociguat. Volume of distribution at steady state = 30 L 95% with serum albumin and alpha-1–acidic glycoprotein being the main binding components.  The active metabolite (M1) of riociguat is 1/3 to 1/10 as potent as riociguat.  Riociguat is eliminated in the urine (40%) and feces (53%), largely as metabolites. About 12 hours in patients and 7 hours in healthy subjects.  EMBRYO-FETAL TOXICITY
Do not administer Riociguat to a pregnant female because it may cause fetal harm.
Females of reproductive potential: Exclude pregnancy before the start of treatment, monthly during treatment, and 1 month after stopping treatment. Prevent pregnancy during treatment and for one month after stopping treatment by using acceptable methods of contraception.
Chlorcyclizine | DrugBank Online Chlorcyclizine is a first generation phenylpiperazine class antihistamine used to treat urticaria, rhinitis, pruritus, and other allergy symptoms. Chlorcyclizine also has some local anesthetic, anticholinergic, and antiserotonergic properties, and can be used as an antiemetic. Readily absorbed after oral administration and widely distributed throughout the body. Metabolised by N-demethylation to form norchlorcyclizine and by N-oxidation. After a single oral dose of 2 mg/kg to 4 subjects, average peak plasma concentrations of about 0.05 mg/L and 0.03 mg/L were attained in 5 h for unchanged drug and norchlorcyclizine, respectively. After oral administration of 50 mg 3 times a day for 6 days, plasma concentrations of norchlorcyclizine of 0.05 to 0.11 mg/L were reported on the first day after the cessation of treatment and plasma concentrations of 0.02 to 0.04 mg/L were found on the 10th day after cessation of treatment [Kuntzman et al. 1973]. about 85 to 90%.  High concentrations of the N-desmethyl metabolite are found in the liver, lungs, kidney, and spleen. Slowly excreted in the urine; measurable amounts of norchlorcyclizine have been detected in the urine for up to 3 weeks after the cessation of chronic oral administration. About 0.5% of a single dose is excreted in the urine as the N-oxide. about 12 h.  Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Baltzly, R. and Castillo, J.C.; U.S. Patent 2,630,435; March 3, 1953; assigned to Burroughs-
Azosemide | DrugBank Online Azosemide is a loop diuretic used to treat hypertension, edema, and ascites. Diuretic affects upon oral administration match those of furosemide. However, upon intravenous administration azosemide displays 5.5 to 8 times greater effect.  Exact mechanism of action is unclear. However, it acts primarily on the loop of Henle, in both the medullary and cortical segments of the thick ascending limb. Peak plasma concentrations are achieved in 3-4 hours when azosemide is administered to healthy humans in a fasting state.
There is an absorption lag time of approximately 1 hour. Oral bioavailability estimated to be 20.4% Poor affinity for human tissue. Small apparent post-pseudodistribution Vd of 0.262 l/kg. > 95% 4% protein binding to 4% human serum albumin at azosemide concentrations of 10-100ug/ml, using equilibrium dialysis. Considerable first pass metabolism which makes parentral administration more effective than oral administration. Eleven metabolites of azosemide were found in rats, but only azosemide and its glucuronide were detected in humans. Total body clearance 112ml/min.
Renal clearance 41.6ml/min. Actively secreted in the renal proximal tubule of humans. This may or may not involve a nonspecific organic acid secretory pathway.
Barbexaclone | DrugBank Online Barbexaclone, a salt compound of propylhexedrine and phenobarbital, is a potent antiepileptic. By weight, barbexaclone is 40% propylhexedrine and 60% phenobarbital. While barbexaclone has sedative properties, propylhexedrine has psychostimulant properties intended to offset these sedative effects. Pharmacokinetic studies have demonstrated that the pharmacokinetics of phenobarbital given as barbexaclone are not affected by propylhexedrine. Several reports from Spanish and Italian literature suggest that barbexaclone is at least as effective as phenobarbital in adults and children, while being better tolerated and having less sedative properties. These reports were conducted in a small series of patients in the 1970s and 1980s, and have yet to be confirmed by larger controlled trials. Despite the lack of controlled trials, barbexaclone was used widely in Turkey until it was discontinued in 2009.  Barbexaclone exists in 25mg and 100mg tablets. 100mg of barbexaclone is equivalent to 60mg of phenobarbital. With this difference in potency in mind, other pharmacokinetic considerations such as dose titration, daily dosing, and optimal plasma concentration can be considered the same as for the equivalent amount of phenobarbital.  There has been a case of barbexaclone abuse due to the amphetamine like properties of propylhexedrine, although the comparative abuse potential is much lower than amphetamine. Created for the treatment for epilepsy, with the intent of creating an antiepileptic with less sedative properties than phenobarbital.  Phenobarbitol targets GABA receptors in the CNS.
Propylhexedrine is a TAAR1 agonist.  After oral administration of barbexaclone in mice the maximum plasma levels of
prophylhexedrine appeared after 4 minutes, and propylhexedrine was seen to penetrate the blood brain barrier rapidly.
Bioavailability (AUC oral / AUC iv) = 0.37. [3]
Phenobarbital was observed to reach the blood more slowly, and brain uptake was a slow process.
Equilibrium concentrations with plasma reached after 30 minutes after i.v injection. [3] In mice, the volume of distribution was 0.78L/kg of phenobarbital, and 19.3L/kg for propylhexedrine, after i.v. administration. [3]
High but unequal tissue accumulation of propylhexedrine was observed in mice:
lung = kidney > liver = brain > spleen > heart > skeletal muscle. [3] After IV administration in mice, levels of phenobarbital declined exponentially with a half life of 7.5h. [3]
For propylhexedrine t0.5a = 0.31h and t0.5b = 2.5h.  Barbiturates are associated with congenital heart malformations, facial clefts, and other malformations. [5]
There is no available data on the use of barbexaclone in pregnancy. One case of a 36 year old women
who used barbexaclone 300mg/day and oxcarbezine 600mg/day for 2 years before the pregnancy and 10 weeks into
pregnancy resulted in an uncomplicated delivery and normal physical, motor, and mental development at 24 months of age.
Batroxobin | DrugBank Online Batroxobin is a defibrinogenating hemostatic agent derived from the venom of a pit viper, Bothrops atrox moojeni. In addition to batroxobin, the venom of Bothrops atrox has a composition of 10.2% neutral carbohydrate. Batroxobin is a serine protease, which cleaves the 16 Arginine - 17 Glycine bond in fibrinogen. The MW of batroxobin is approximately 43,000 g/mol-1, and it contains 231 amino acids. Batroxobin is inactivated by alpha2-macroglobulin, but not anti-thrombin compounds. Batroxobin will also bind fibrinogen in a manner different than thrombin and with a higher affinity. Once bound to fibrin, it will cause fibrin accretion(clot formation) to a degree 18 folds greater than thrombin.  Currently use is experimental but trials have been conducted which support certain clinical applications. Recombinant Batroxobin in relatively affordable and could be accessed by mass production. No approved indications. Batroxobin is a defibrongenating agent which has been observed to reduce fibrinogen levels and thus reduce clot risk when used intravenously. Insensitive to thrombin inhibitors and capable of clotting platelet rich plasma without affecting platelet function. Batroxobin is a thrombin like serine protease enzyme that will cleave fibrinogen. Cleavage at the16 Arginine - 17 Glycine bond in the A alpha chain of fibrinogen releases fibrinopeptide A and forms a fibrin I monomer that will spontaneously aggregate into a clot. The reduction of plasma fibrinogen by formation of fibrin microclots that are easily cleared by the reticuloendothelial system
Captodiame | DrugBank Online Captodiame, also known as captodiamine, is an antihistamine which is used as a sedative and anxiolytic. It is a derivative of diphenhydramine. Captodiame has been suggested for use in preventing benzodiazepine withdrawal syndrome. Captodiame is indicated for the treatment of anxiety.  Renal.  -TDLo oral 17mg/kg (human) BEHAVIORAL: ALTERED SLEEP TIME (INCLUDING CHANGE IN RIGHTING REFLEX). PMID: 13535337.
-LD50 intraperitoneal 116mg/kg (mouse) BEHAVIORAL: CONVULSIONS OR EFFECT ON SEIZURE THRESHOLD. PMID: 13062090.
Cytisine | DrugBank Online Cytisine is an alkaloid naturally derived from the Fabaceae family of plants including the genera Laburnum and Cytisus. Recent studies have shown it to be a more effective and significantly more affordable smoking cessation treatment than nicotine replacement therapy. Also known as baptitoxine or sophorine, cytisine has been used as a smoking cessation treatment since 1964, and is relatively unknown in regions outside of central and Eastern Europe. Cytisine is a partial nicotinic acetylcholine agonist with a half-life of 4.8 hours. Recent Phase III clinical trials using Tabex (a brand of Cytisine marketed by Sopharma AD) have shown similar efficacy to varenicline, but at a fraction of the cost. Indicated for use in smoking cessation.  Various models have been run where the affinity of nAChR agonists to the receptor subtype are tested to help identify the molecules, groups and steric conformation that are vital to greater affinity. By using a nAChR muscle receptor subtype (α1)2β1δγ model the following results were obtained:
anatoxin > epibatidine > acetylcholine > DMPP >> CYTISINE > pyrantel > nicotine > coniine > tubocurare > lobeline,
where anatoxin had the highest activity efficacy and tubocurare the lowest. Acetylcholine on the other hand induced a much longer opening time of the receptor though anatoxin is more potent. The results suggest that anatoxin derivatives would be helpful in understanding structure-activity relationships (SAR) for muscle nAChRs (Cooper et al., 1996).  Cytisine is a low efficacy partial agonist of ⍺4-β2 nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. These which are believed to be central to the effect of nicotine (NIC) on the reward pathway and facilitate addiction. Cytisine reduces the effects of NIC on dopamine release in the mesolimbic system when given alone, while simultaneously attenuating NIC withdrawal symptoms that accompany cessation attempts. Oral: 6.2 l/kg Oral (5 mg/kg; tested in rabbits).  4.8 hours.  Renal: 43 mL/min.  The therapeutic index of cytisine is wide.
-Large doses can interfere with breathing and cause death.
From MSDS:
Efinaconazole | DrugBank Online Efinaconazole is a 14 alpha-demethylase inhibitor indicated in the treatment of fungal infection of the nail, known as onychomycosis. It was approved for use in Canada and the USA in 2014 and is marketed by Valeant Pharmaceuticals North America LLC under the name Jublia. Indicated in the treatment of fungal infection of the nail, known as onychomycosis. mean ± SD plasma Cmax on Day 28 of treatment: 0.67 ± 0.37 ng/mL.
Albiglutide | DrugBank Online Albiglutide is a glucagon-like peptide-1 agonist (GLP-1) biologic drug indicated in the treatment of type 2 diabetes. It is marketed under the brands Eperzan and Tanzeum by GSK (GlaxoSmithKline). It is a dipeptidyl peptidase-4-resistant glucagon-like peptide-1 dimer fused to human albumin. Albiglutide was approved on April 15, 2014 by the FDA. Indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve glycemic control in adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Albiglutide is an agonist of the GLP-1 (glucagon-like peptide 1) receptor and augments glucose-dependent insulin secretion. Albiglutide also slows gastric emptying.  Maximum concentrations of albiglutide were reached at 3 to 5 days post-dosing following a single 30mg dose. The mean peak concentration (Cmax) and mean area under the time-concentration curve (AUC) of albiglutide were 1.74 mcg/mL and 465 mcg.h/mL, respectively 11 L.  Biotransformation studies have not been performed. Because albiglutide is an albumin fusion protein, it likely follows a metabolic pathway similar to native human serum albumin, which is catabolized primarily in the vascular endothelium. 4-7 days. 67 mL/h. -RISK OF THYROID C-CELL TUMORS
Finafloxacin | DrugBank Online Finafloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic indicated in the treatment of acute otitis externa (swimmer's ear) caused by the bacteria Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus. Finafloxacin is marketed by Novartis under the brand Xtoro™, and was approved by the FDA in December 2014.  Finafloxacin is indicated for the treatment of acute otitis externa (AOE) with or without an otowick, caused by susceptible strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus in patients age 1 year and older.  Finafloxacin is a fluoroquinolone antibiotic, which selectively inhibit bacterial type II topoisomerase enzymes, DNA gyrase and topoisomerase IV, which are required for bacterial DNA replication, transcription, repair and recombination. -Finafloxacin was shown to be genotoxic and clastogenic in vitro, with and without metabolic activation, and in vivo.
-General toxicity studies in rats have confirmed sperm toxicity following oral and intravenous dosing.
Naloxegol | DrugBank Online Naloxegol, for "PEGylated naloxol" is a peripherally-selective opioid antagonist developed by AstraZeneca. It was approved by the FDA in September 2014 and is indicated for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation (OIC) in adult patients with chronic non‑cancer pain. The advantage of naloxegol over the opioid antagonist naloxone is that its PEGylated structure allows for high selectivity for peripheral opioid receptors and lack of entry into the central nervous system through the blood-brain barrier. Indicated for the treatment of opioid-induced constipation (OIC) in adult patients with chronic non-cancer pain. Use of opioids induces slowing of gastrointestinal motility and transit. Patients do not develop tolerance to these effects, unlike many other opioid side effects. Naloxegol antagonizes mu, delta, and kappa opioid receptors, having the highest affinity for mu. Antagonism of gastrointestinal mu-opioid receptors by naloxegol inhibits opioid-induced delay of gastrointestinal transit time. Naloxegol is an antagonist of opioid binding at the mu-opioid receptor. When administered at the recommended dose levels, naloxegol functions as a peripherally-acting mu-opioid receptor antagonist in tissues such as the gastrointestinal tract, thereby decreasing the constipating effects of opioids. Naloxegol has shown more than 6000 fold selectivity for the peripheral mu receptors, and its PEGylated form restricts its action only to the periphery, not affecting the pain-relieving mechanism of opioids in the central nervous system. Following oral administration, naloxegol is absorbed with peak concentrations (Cmax) achieved in less than 2 hours. 968 to 2140 L. ~4.2% Naloxegol is metabolized primarily by the CYP P450 3A4 enzyme system and undergoes enterohepatic recycling. In a mass balance study in humans, a total of 6 metabolites were identified in plasma, urine and feces. These metabolites were formed via N-dealkylation, O-demethylation, oxidation and partial loss of the PEG chain. Human metabolism data suggests absence of major metabolites. The activity of the metabolites at the opioid receptor has not been determined. Feces: 68% after oral administration.
Ceftolozane | DrugBank Online Ceftolozane is a semi-synthetic broad-spectrum fifth generation cephalosporin.10 It was approved by the FDA in 2014 for use in combination with Tazobactam for the treatment of serious infections, such as intra-abdominal infections and complicated urinary tract infections. The manufacturer of this drug is Cubist Pharmaceuticals.3 Most recently, in June 2019, ceftolozane-tazobactam was approved for the treatment of hospital-acquired bacterial pneumonia and ventilator-associated bacterial pneumonia.Label Hospital-acquired pneumonia and ventilator-associated pneumonia are major causes of morbidity and mortality in hospitalized patients and the use of ceftolozane-tazobactam offers effective activity against various organisms causing these infections, such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa.12 This drug is administered in combination with tazobactam for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections (in combination with metronidazole) and complicated urinary tract infections4, which may include pyelonephritis. Ceftolozane-tazobactam is also indicated in the treatment of bacterial ventilator-associated pneumonia and bacterial hospital-acquired pneumonia.Label Ceftolozane exerts bactericidal activities against susceptible gram-negative and gram-positive infections by interfering with bacterial cell wall synthesis.Label,5 When it is combined with tazobactam, it exerts further activity against beta-lactamase enzyme producing bacteria, which are normally resistant to beta-lactam antibiotics and interfere with infection treatment.Label,11 The addition of tazobactam strengthens the therapeutic response to ceftolozane, giving it the ability to treat a broader range of bacterial infections and resistant organisms.5,7,9 Ceftolozane belongs to the cephalosporin class of antibacterial drugs. Ceftolozane exerts antibacterial effects, preventing the formation of cell walls that protect bacteria from injury and confer resistance to some antibiotics. Its antibacterial activity is also mediated through ceftolozane binding to penicillin-binding proteins (PBPs), which are required for peptidoglycan cross-linking for bacterial cell wall synthesis. As a result of cell wall synthesis inhibition, bacterial cells are killed, treating various infections.7,6 Ceftolozane has a particularly high affinity to the penicillin-binding proteins for Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Escherichia coli as well as Klebsiella pneumoniae and other enteric bacteria.11 In particular, a high affinity has been seen in vitro for penicillin-binding proteins 1b, 1c, 2, and 3 when compared to other antibiotics, ceftazidime and imipenem. 8 The area under the curve (AUC) of ceftolozane-tazobactam after an injected dose of 1 g/0.5 g every 8 hours for 1 day was 172 mcg•h/mLLabel.
The Cmax (peak concentration) and AUC are dose-dependent. The Cmax on day one of the above dose of ceftolozane-tazobactam was 69.1 mcg/mL.Label 13.5 L Label Tissue distribution of ceftalozone-tazobactam is rapid and shows good penetration into the lung, rendering it an ideal treatment for bacterial pneumonia.7 16% to 21% bound to plasma proteins.Label Certolozane is not metabolized to any significant extent.Label The beta-lactam ring of tazobactam, when administered as ceftolozane-tazobactam, is hydrolyzed to form an inactive metabolite.Label Ceftolozane is mainly excreted in the urine.Label,6 2.77 hours on day 1 of treatment on a dose of 1 g/0.5 g every 8 hours.Label,6
Elosulfase alfa | DrugBank Online Elosulfase alfa is a synthetic version of the enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase. It was approved by the FDA in 2014 for the treatment of Morquio syndrome. Elosulfase alfa was developed by BioMarin Pharmaceutical Inc. and is marketed under the brand Vimizim™. The recommended dose is 2 mg per kg given intravenously over a minimum range of 3.5 to 4.5 hours, based on infusion volume, once every week. Vimizim is a hydrolytic lysosomal glycosaminoglycan (GAG)-specific enzyme indicated for patients with Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA (MPS IVA; Morquio A syndrome).  AUC: 238 min x μg/mL, standard deviation 100.  Mucopolysaccharidoses comprise a group of lysosomal storage disorders caused by the deficiency of specific lysosomal enzymes required for the catabolism of glycosaminoglycans (GAG). Mucopolysaccharidosis IVA (MPS IVA, Morquio A Syndrome) is characterized by the absence or marked reduction in N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase activity. The sulfatase activity deficiency results in the accumulation of the GAG substrates, KS and C6S, in the lysosomal compartment of cells throughout the body. The accumulation leads to widespread cellular, tissue, and organ dysfunction. Vimizim is intended to provide the exogenous enzyme N-acetylgalactosamine-6-sulfatase that will be taken up into the lysosomes and increase the catabolism of the GAGs KS and C6S. Elosulfase alfa uptake by cells into lysosomes is mediated by the binding of mannose-6-phosphate-terminated oligosaccharide chains of elosulfase alfa to mannose-6-phosphate receptors. In the absence of an animal disease model that recapitulates the human disease phenotype, elosulfase alfa pharmacological activity was evaluated using human primary chondrocytes from two MPS IVA patients. Treatment of MPS IVA chondrocytes with elosulfase alfa induced clearance of KS lysosomal storage from the chondrocytes. Cmax: 1.49 μg/mL, standard deviation 0.534. 396 mL/kg, standard deviation 316. week 0: 7.52 min
week 22: 35.9 min 10.0 mL/min/kg.
Avibactam | DrugBank Online Avibactam is a non-β-lactam β-lactamase inhibitor that is available in combination with ceftazidime (Avycaz). This combination was approved by the FDA on February 25, 2015 for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections in combination with metronidazole, and the treatment of complicated urinary tract infections, including pyelonephritis caused by antibiotic resistant-pathogens, including those caused by multi-drug resistant gram-negative bacterial pathogens. As there is limited clinical safety and efficacy data, Avycaz should be reserved for patients over 18 years old who have limited or not alternative treatment options. AVYCAZ (ceftazidime-avibactam), in combination with metronidazole, is indicated for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections caused by the following susceptible microorganisms: Escherichia coli, Klebsiella pneumoniae, Proteus mirabilis, Providencia stuartii, Enterobacter cloacae, Klebsiella oxytoca, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients 18 years or older.
Cannabidiol | DrugBank Online Cannabidiol, or CBD, is one of at least 85 active cannabinoids identified within the Cannabis plant. It is a major phytocannabinoid, accounting for up to 40% of the Cannabis plant's extract, that binds to a wide variety of physiological targets of the endocannabinoid system within the body. Although the exact medical implications are currently being investigated, CBD has shown promise as a therapeutic and pharmaceutical drug target. In particular, CBD has shown promise as an analgesic, anticonvulsant, muscle relaxant, anxiolytic, antipsychotic and has shown neuroprotective, anti-inflammatory, and antioxidant activity, among other currently investigated uses 6,5. CBD's exact place within medical practice is still currently hotly debated, however as the body of evidence grows and legislation changes to reflect its wide-spread use, public and medical opinion have changed significantly with regards to its usefulness in a number of medical conditions ranging from anxiety to epilepsy. From a pharmacological perspective, Cannabis' (and CBD's) diverse receptor profile explains its potential application for such a wide variety of medical conditions. Cannabis contains more than 400 different chemical compounds, of which 61 are considered cannabinoids, a class of compounds that act upon endogenous cannabinoid receptors of the body 11. Cannabinoid receptors are utilized endogenously by the body through the endocannabinoid system, which includes a group of lipid proteins, enzymes, and receptors that are involved in many physiological processes. Through its modulation of neurotransmitter release, the endocannabinoid system regulates cognition, pain sensation, appetite, memory, sleep, immune function, and mood among many other bodily systems. These effects are largely mediated through two members of the G-protein coupled receptor family, cannabinoid receptors 1 and 2 (CB1 and CB2)12,8. CB1 receptors are found in both the central and peripheral nervous systems, with the majority of receptors localized to the hippocampus and amygdala of the brain. Physiological effects of using cannabis make sense in the context of its receptor activity as the hippocampus and amygdala are primarily involved with regulation of memory, fear, and emotion. In contrast, CB2 receptors are mainly found peripherally in immune cells, lymphoid tissue, and peripheral nerve terminals 9. Tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) and cannabidiol (CBD) are two types of cannabinoids found naturally in the resin of the marijuana plant, both of which interact with the cannabinoid receptors that are found throughout the body. Although THC and CBD have been the most studied cannabinoids, there are many others identified to date including cannabinol (CBN), cannabigerol (CBG), Cannabidivarin (CBDV), and Tetrahydrocannabivarin (THCV) that can be found within the medical cannabis 10. While both CBD and THC are used for medicinal purposes, they have different receptor activity, function, and physiological effects. If not provided in their activated form (such as through synthetic forms of THC like Dronabinol or Nabilone), THC and CBD are obtained through conversion from their precursors, tetrahydrocannabinolic acid-A (THCA-A) and cannabidiolic acid (CBDA), through decarboxylation reactions. This can be achieved through heating, smoking, vaporization, or baking of dried unfertilized female cannabis flowers. The primary psychoactive component of Cannabis, delta 9-tetrahydrocannabinol (Δ9-THC), demonstrates its effects through weak partial agonist activity at Cannabinoid-1 (CB1R) and Cannabinoid-2 (CB2R) receptors. This activity results in the well-known effects of smoking cannabis such as increased appetite, reduced pain, and changes in emotional and cognitive processes. In contrast to THC's weak agonist activity, CBD has been shown to act as a negative allosteric modulator of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor, the most abundant G-Protein Coupled Receptor (GPCR) in the body 5. Allosteric regulation is achieved through the modulation of receptor activity on a functionally distinct site from the agonist or antagonist binding site which is clinically significant as direct agonists (such as THC) are limited by their psychomimetic effects such as changes to mood, memory, and anxiety5.  In addition to the well-known activity on CB1 and CB2 receptors, there is further evidence that CBD also activates 5-HT1A/2A/3A serotonergic and TRPV1–2 vanilloid receptors, antagonizes alpha-1 adrenergic and µ-opioid receptors, inhibits synaptosomal uptake of noradrenaline, dopamine, serotonin and gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA), and cellular uptake of anandamide, acts on mitochondria Ca2+ stores, blocks low-voltage-activated (T-type) Ca2+ channels, stimulates activity of the inhibitory glycine-receptor, and inhibits activity of fatty amide hydrolase (FAAH) 1,2. CBD is currently available in Canada within a 1:1 formulation with tetrahydrocannbinol (THC) (as the formulation known as "nabiximols") as the brand name product Sativex. It is approved for use as adjunctive treatment for symptomatic relief of spasticity in adult patients with multiple sclerosis (MS). Sativex was also given a conditional Notice of Compliance (NOC/c) for use as adjunctive treatment for the symptomatic relief of neuropathic pain in adult patients with multiple sclerosis and as adjunctive analgesic treatment for moderate to severe pain in adult patients with advanced cancer 17. In April 2018, a Food and Drug Administration advisory panel unanimously recommended approval of Epidiolex (cannabidiol oral solution) for the treatment of two rare forms of epilepsy - Lennox-Gastaut syndrome and Dravet syndrome, which are among the two most difficult types of epilepsy to treat 20,18. Epidiolex was granted Orphan Drug designation as well as Fast Track Approval from the FDA for further study in these hard to treat conditions. Notably, phase 3 clinical trials of Epidiolex have demonstrated clinically significant improvement in Lennox-Gastaut syndrome and Dravet syndrome 19. On June 25th, 2018, Epidiolex was approved by the FDA to be the first CBD-based product available on the US market. When used in combination with delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol as the product Sativex, cannabidiol was given a standard marketing authorization (ie. a Notice of Compliance (NOC)) by Health Canada for the following indications:
1) as adjunctive treatment for symptomatic relief of spasticity in adult patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) who have not responded adequately to other therapy and who demonstrate meaningful improvement during an initial trial of therapy 17; Due to the need for confirmatory studies to verify the clinical benefit coupled with the promising nature of the clinical evidence, Sativex was also given a Notice of Compliance with Conditions (NOC/c) by Health Canada for the following indications:
1) as adjunctive treatment for the symptomatic relief of neuropathic pain in adult patients with multiple sclerosis;
2) as adjunctive analgesic treatment in adult patients with advanced cancer who experience moderate to severe pain during the highest tolerated dose of strong opioid therapy for persistent background pain 17. Although the exact mechanism and magnitude of effects of THC and CBD are not fully understood, CBD has been shown to have analgesic, anticonvulsant, muscle relaxant, anxiolytic, neuroprotective, anti-oxidant, and anti-psychotic activity. This wide variety of effects is likely due to it's complex pharmacological mechanisms. In addition to binding to CB1 and CB2 receptors of the endocannabinoid system, there is evidence that CBD activates 5-HT1A serotonergic and TRPV1–2 vanilloid receptors, antagonizes alpha-1 adrenergic and µ-opioid receptors, inhibits synaptosomal uptake of noradrenaline, dopamine, serotonin and gaminobutyric acid and cellular uptake of anandamide, acts on mitochondria Ca2 stores, blocks low-voltage-activated (T-type) Ca2 channels, stimulates activity of the inhibitory glycine-receptor, and inhibits activity of fatty amide hydrolase (FAAH) 1,2. The exact mechanism of action of CBD and THC is not currently fully understood. However, it is known that CBD acts on cannabinoid (CB) receptors of the endocannabinoid system, which are found in numerous areas of the body, including the peripheral and central nervous systems, including the brain. The endocannabinoid system regulates many physiological responses of the body including pain, memory, appetite, and mood. More specifically, CB1 receptors can be found within the pain pathways of the brain and spinal cord where they may affect CBD-induced analgesia and anxiolysis, and CB2 receptors have an effect on immune cells, where they may affect CBD-induced anti-inflammatory processes.  CBD has been shown to act as a negative allosteric modulator of the cannabinoid CB1 receptor, the most abundant G-Protein Coupled Receptor (GPCR) in the body 5. Allosteric regulation of a receptor is achieved through the modulation of the activity of a receptor on a functionally distinct site from the agonist or antagonist binding site. The negative allosteric modulatory effects of CBD are therapeutically important as direct agonists are limited by their psychomimetic effects while direct antagonists are limited by their depressant effects 5.  Following a single buccal administration, maximum plasma concentrations of both CBD and THC typically occur within two to four hours. When administered buccally,
Nintedanib | DrugBank Online Nintedanib is a small molecule kinase inhibitor used in the treatment of pulmonary fibrosis, systemic sclerosis-associated interstitial lung disease, and non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).8,9 It was first approved for use in the United States in 2014.8 Within the spectrum of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis treatment options, nintedanib is currently one of only two disease-modifying therapies available and indicated for the condition (the other being Pirfenidone) and as such is used as a first-line treatment following diagnosis to slow down the progressive loss of lung function.6 As a chemotherapeutic agent for NSCLC, nintedanib, in combination with Docetaxel, is reserved for patients who have tried and failed first-line chemotherapeutic options.9 In the US, nintedanib is indicated for the treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF)8 and to slow declining pulmonary function in patients with systemic sclerosis-associated interstitial lung disease.10 In the EU, nintedanib is indicated in combination with docetaxel for the treatment of adult patients with metastatic, locally advanced, or locally recurrent non-small cell lung cancer of adenocarcinoma histology who have already tried first-line therapy.9 Nintedanib is a small molecule kinase inhibitor that inhibits upstream kinase activity to ultimately inhibit lung fibroblast proliferation and migration, as well as signalling pathways that promote the proliferation and survival of endothelial and perivascular cells in tumour tissues.8,9,5 Nintedanib poses a risk of drug-induced liver injury, especially within the first three months of therapy.8,9 Liver function tests should be conducted at baseline prior to beginning therapy, at regular intervals for the first three months of therapy, and as indicated thereafter in patients exhibiting symptoms of hepatic injury such as jaundice or right upper quadrant pain. It is not recommended to be used in patients with pre-existing moderate to severe hepatic impairment (Child Pugh class B or C). Nintedanib is a small molecule, competitive, triple angiokinase inhibitor that targets multiple receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) and non-receptor tyrosine kinases (nRTKs). Many of these RTKs are implicated in lung fibrosis and tumour angiogenesis, so nintedanib is therefore used in the treatment of proliferative diseases such as idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, non-small cell lung cancer, and systemic sclerosis-associated interstitial lung disease.8,9 The specific RTKs that nintedanib inhibits are platelet-derived growth factor (PDGFR) α and β, fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) 1-3, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) 1-3, and Fns-Like tyrosine kinase-3 (FLT3).8,9,5 Nintedanib binds to the ATP-binding pocket of these receptors and inhibits their activity, thereby blocking signalling cascades that result in the proliferation and migration of lung fibroblasts. Nintedanib also inhibits kinase signalling pathways in various cells within tumour tissues, including endothelial cells, pericytes, smooth muscle cells, and cells contributing to angiogenesis, culminating in an inhibition of cell proliferation and apoptosis of affected tumour cells.5 In addition to RTK inhibition, nintedanib also prevents the actions of the nRTKs Lck, Lyn, and Src.8,9,5 The contribution of the inhibition of Lck and Lyn towards the therapeutic efficacy of nintedanib is unclear, but inhibition of the Src pathway by nintedanib has been shown to reduce lung fibrosis.5,7 The absolute bioavailability of nintedanib is low at approximately 4.7%, likely owing to substantial first-pass metabolism and the effects of p-glycoprotein (P-gp) transporters.8,9,5 Tmax following oral administration is reached after approximately 2 hours in fasted patients and approximately 4 hours in fed patients, regardless of the food consumed.8,9 Administration of nintedanib following a high-fat, high-calorie meal resulted in an increase in Cmax by approximately 15% and an increase in AUC by approximately 20%.5 Age, body weight, and smoking status have been found to alter exposure to nintedanib, but these effects are not significant enough to warrant dose alterations.8,5 Nintedanib appears to follow biphasic disposition kinetics - the observed volume of distribution following intravenous administration is 1050 L8,9, indicating extensive distribution into peripheral tissues. In rats, nintedanib was shown to rapidly and homogeneously distribute into peripheral tissues with the exception of the CNS, suggestive of an inability of nintedanib to cross the blood-brain barrier.5 Plasma protein binding of nintedanib is high, with a bound fraction of 97.8%. Albumin is thought to be the major binding protein.8,9,5 Nintedanib is predominantly metabolized via hydrolytic cleavage by esterases to its principle metabolite, BIBF 1202, which then undergoes glucuronidation via UGT enzymes in the intestines and liver (specifically UGT 1A1, UGT 1A7, UGT 1A8, and UGT 1A10) to form BIBF 1202 glucuronide.8,9,5 The CYP450 enzyme system plays a minor role in nintedanib metabolism, with CYP3A4 believed to be the main contributor - the major CYP-dependent metabolite of nintedanib, a demethylated metabolite termed BIBF 1053, could not be detected in plasma during pharmacokinetic studies and was found only in small quantities in the feces (approximately 4% of total dose).5 CYP-dependent metabolism of nintedanib accounts for roughly 5% of total drug metabolism, as opposed to 25% for esterase cleavage.8,9 Other minor metabolites, M7 and M8, are found in very small quantities in the urine (0.03% and 0.01%, respectively), though their origin and relevance is currently unclear.5 Hover over products below to view reaction partners Nintedanib is eliminated primarily via fecal and biliary excretion, with 93.4% of radio labelled nintedanib found in feces within 120 hours following administration.8,9,5 Renal clearance accounts for a small portion of nintedanib's elimination, approximately 0.65% of the total dose, and excretion of unchanged nintedanib 48 hours after oral and intravenous doses was 0.05% and 1.4%, respectively.8,9,5 The terminal elimination half-life of nintedanib is approximately 10-15 hours.9,5 In patients with idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, the effective half-life of nintedanib has been estimated to be approximately 9.5 hours.8,5 Nintedanib is has a high total plasma clearance of approximately 1390 mL/min and a renal clearance of 20 mL/min.8 Experience with nintedanib overdose is limited, but patients who inadvertently received higher-than-intended doses during initial trials experienced adverse effects consistent with the known safety profile of nintedanib, for example elevated liver enzymes and significant gastrointestinal effects.8,9 There are no specific guidelines for the treatment of nintedanib overdose - in this case, therapy should be interrupted and general supportive measures employed as indicated.8,9 Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Gerald J. Roth, Armin Heckel, Florian Colbatzky, Sandra Handschuh, Jörg Kley, Thorsten Lehmann-Lintz, Ralf Lotz, Ulrike Tontsch-Grunt, Rainer Walter, and Frank Hilberg
Idebenone | DrugBank Online Idebenone is a synthetic analogue of ubiquinone (also known as Coenzyme Q10), a vital cell antioxidant and essential component of the Electron Transport Chain (ETC). It has been proposed that by interacting with the ETC, idebenone increases ATP production required for mitochondrial function, reduces free radicals, inhibits lipid peroxidation, and consequently protects the lipid membrane and mitochondria from oxidative damage 2. More specifically, idebenone is thought to transfer electrons directly to complex III of the mitochondrial ETC, thereby circumventing complex I and restoring cellular energy (ATP) generation 4.  Due to its ability to reduce oxidative damage and improve ATP production, idebenone was originally investigated for its potential use in Alzheimer's Disease and other cognitivie disorders 3. Lack of improvement in cognitive function halted its production for these conditions, however it continues to be investigated for use in other conditions associated with mitochondrial damage.  Idebenone is currently only indicated for use by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for the treatment of visual impairment in adolescent and adult patients with
Leber’s Hereditary Optic Neuropathy (LHON). LHON is a mitochondrially inherited degeneration of retinal ganglion cells, resulting in acute central vision loss. Due to its biochemical mode of action, it's thought that idebenone may re-activate viable-but-inactive retinal ganglion cells (RGCs) in LHON patients 4. It is not currently approved for use by either the Food and Drug Administration (USA) or Health Canada. Idebenone is indicated for use by the European Medicines Agency (EMA) for the treatment of visual impairment in adolescent and adult patients with
Leber’s Hereditary Optic Neuropathy (LHON). It is not currently approved for use by either the Food and Drug Administration (USA) or Health Canada 4. Idebenone is a synthetic analogue of ubiquinone (also known as Coenzyme Q10), a vital cell antioxidant and essential component of the Electron Transport Chain (ETC). It has been proposed that by interacting with the ETC, idebenone increases ATP production required for mitochondrial function, reduces free radicals, inhibits lipid peroxidation, and consequently protects the lipid membrane and mitochondria from oxidative damage 2. More specifically, idebenone is thought to transfer electrons directly to complex III of the mitochondrial ETC, thereby circumventing complex I and restoring cellular energy (ATP) generation 4.  After oral administration, idebenone is rapidly absorbed. On repeat dosing, maximum plasma concentrations of idebenone are reached on average within 1 hour (median 0.67 h range: 0.33-2.00 h). Food increases the bioavailability of idebenone by approximately 5-7-fold and i therefore should always be administered with food 4.  Experimental data have shown that idebenone passes the blood-brain barrier and is distributed at significant concentrations in cerebral tissue. Following oral administration pharmacologically relevant concentrations of idebenone are detectable in the aqueous humor of the eye 4. Metabolism occurs by means of oxidative shortening of the side chain and by reduction of the quinone ring and conjugation to glucuronides and sulphates. Idebenone shows a high first pass metabolism resulting in conjugates of idebenone (glucuronides and sulphates (IDE-C)) and the Phase I metabolites QS10, QS6, and QS4 as well as their corresponding Phase II metabolites (glucuronides and sulphates (QS10+QS10-C, QS6+QS6-C, QS4+QS4-C)). The main metabolites in plasma are IDE-C and
Eugenol | DrugBank Online Eugenol is a naturally occurring phenolic molecule found in several plants such as cinnamon, clove, and bay leaves. It has been used as a topical antiseptic as a counter-irritant and in dental preparations with zinc oxide for root canal sealing and pain control. Although not currently available in any FDA-approved products (including OTC), eugenol has been found to have anti-inflammatory, neuroprotective, antipyretic, antioxidant, antifungal and analgesic properties. Its exact mechanism of action is unknown, however, it has been shown to interfere with action potential conduction.
Potassium alum | DrugBank Online Potassium alum is considered by the FDA as a generally recognized as safe (GRAS) substance.9 It is an inorganic salt, also called potassium aluminum sulfate with a formula of AlK(SO4)2 that is predominantly produced in the dodecahydrate form (AlK(SO4)2 * 12H2O). Potassium alum is formed by large, transparent crystals that are used in different products like food or drugs as a buffer, neutralizing or forming agent.4 Potassium alum is considered safe by the FDA and its use is in homepathic or OTC products. Due to its presence in several different drugs, the main indications for the use of potassium alum are: -Constipation10
-Cosmetic or drug astringent, helping the shrinkage of tissues and the dry of secretions11
-Oral health care drug11
-Part of formulation in cleansing products, skin-care products, mosturizers, face powders and deodorants12
-Antiperspirant13
Podophyllin | DrugBank Online Podophyllin is a resin extracted from the roots of Podophyllum peltatum (American mandrake) and Podophyllum emodi, which contains numerous compounds, amongst which is podophyllin (as well as the drug podophyllotoxin). Podophyllin is the principal active component. Podophyllin arrests mitosis in metaphase. 25% podophyllin (in benzoin tincture) is indicated for the removal of soft genital (venereal) warts (condylomata acuminata). Cell division is arrested and other cellular processes are impaired, gradually resulting in the disruption of cells and destruction of the tissue. Podophyllin is a cytotoxic agent that has been used topically in the treatment of genital warts. It arrests mitosis in metaphase, an effect it shares with other cytotoxic agents such as the vinca alkaloids. The active agent is podophyllotoxin. Oral absorption: Podophyllum is very well and rapidly absorbed after ingestion.
Magnesium hydroxide | DrugBank Online Magnesium hydroxide is an inorganic compound. It is naturally found as the mineral brucite. Magnesium hydroxide can be used as an antacid or a laxative in either an oral liquid suspension or chewable tablet form.
Additionally, magnesium hydroxide has smoke suppressing and flame retardant properties and is thus used commercially as a fire retardant.
Hydroxyethyl Starch | DrugBank Online Hydroxyethyl starch (HES/HAES) is a nonionic starch derivative. Hydroxyethyl starches (HES) are synthetic colloids commonly used for fluid resuscitation to replace intravascular volume.
HES is a general term and can be sub-classified according to average molecular weight, molar substitution, concentration, C2/C6 ratio and Maximum Daily Dose. An intravenous solution of hydroxyethyl starch is used to prevent shock following severe blood loss caused by trauma, surgery, or other issues. After isovolemic exchange of blood with 500 mL of HES in healthy volunteers, blood volume is maintained for at least 6 hours Hydroxyethyl starch (HES) is one of the most frequently used plasma substitutes. Recent studies have indicated that HES may reduce capillary leakage. Peak concentration (C(max), 4.34 mg/mL)  5.9 L. Data not found.  When given intravenously, molecules smaller than the renal threshold (60,000-70,000 daltons) are readily and rapidly excreted in the urine, while molecules with higher molecular weights are metabolized by plasma α-amylase prior to excretion via the renal route. Approximately 62 % of HES was excreted as hydroxyethyl starch molecules in urine within 72 hours. Terminal half-life is 16.1 h.
Methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta | DrugBank Online Methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta is a chemically synthesised Erythropoiesis Stimulating Agent (ESA) with a longer half-life than erythropoietin. ESA is used to increase synthesis of red blood cells to treat chronic kidney disease associated anemia. For the treatment of patients with anaemia associated with chronic kidney disease. Not a substitute for RBC transfusion if immediate correction of anemia is required. Stimulates hemoglobin production by stimulating the erythropoetin receptor of erythroid progenitor cells in the bone marrow. Hemoglobin increase, following a single initial dose, occurs 7 to 15 days after. Erythropoietin is a growth factor for erythroid development. It is produced in the kidney and released into the bloodstream in response to hypoxia, interacting with erythroid progenitor cells to increase red blood cell production. Production of endogenous erythropoietin is impaired in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD), and erythropoietin deficiency is the primary cause of their anaemia. Administration of methoxy polyethylene glycol-epoetin beta acts like endogenous erythropoetin and stimulates erythropoetin receptor of the erythroid progenitor cells in the bone marrow. Administered parenterally (subcutaneous or IV) therefore not absorbed. ~94.74 ml/kg No protein binding Not metabolized.  Undergoes proteolysis at erythropoietin receptor  In CKD patients on peritoneal dialysis with IV administration: 134 ± 65 hours
Poractant alfa | DrugBank Online Poractant alfa is a pulmonary surfactant marketed as Curosurf in the United States and Canada. It is used to treat Respiratory Distress Syndrome (RDS) in premature infants with an endogenous pulmonary surfactant deficiency. Poractant alfa is an extract of natural porcine lung surfactant consisting of 99% polar lipids (mainly phospholipids) and 1% hydrophobic low molecular weight proteins (surfactant associated proteins SP-B and SP-C). The phospholipid content of the extract consists primarily of phosphatidylcholine and dipaImitoylphosphatidylcholine. Poractant alfa is a creamy white suspension of this extract in 0.9% sodium chloride solution. It contains no preservatives. Poractant alfa is indicated for the treatment of Respiratory Distress Syndrome (RDS) in premature infants. Poractant alfa improved lung compliance, pulmonary gas exchange and survival in preterm rabbits. Endogenous pulmonary surfactant reduces surface tension at the air-liquid interface of the alveoli in the lungs, thus stabilizing them against collapse under transpulmonary pressures. A deficiency of pulmonary surfactant in premature infants allows surface tension to increase to the point where sections of lung collapse and respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) develops. Poractant alfa lowers minimum surface tension to less than or equal to 4 mN/m. This compensates for the lack of endogenous surfactant and restores adequate surface activity to the lungs. Poractant alfa is administered directly to the site of action in the lungs via endotracheal tube. It very rapidly adsorbs to the air-liquid interface to form a stable surfactant monolayer. No studies on absorption of poractant alfa have been performed in humans. No studies on the distribution of poractant alfa have been performed in humans. No studies on the metabolism of poractant alfa have been performed in humans. One small study in rabbits did find that poractant alfa may be degraded by macrophages and that it may, in part, be recycled in the alveoli in a similar manner to endogenous lung surfactant. No studies on elimination of poractant alfa have been performed in humans. The half-life of poractant alfa has only been evaluated in animal studies. When studied in adult and newborn rabbits, the half-life in the lungs was found to be 25 and 67 respectively.  No studies on clearance of poractant alfa have been performed in humans. Studies on the carcinogenicity or reproductive effects of poractant alfa have not been conducted. Mutagenicity assays were negative.
Paraldehyde | DrugBank Online Paraldehyde was initially introduced into medical practice in the United Kingdom in 1882 by the Italian physician Vincenzo Cervello. It is classified as a central nervous system (CNS) depressant and has also been found to be an effective anticonvulsant, hypnotic and sedative agent due to its CNS depressant properties. Paraldehyde is used as an ingredient in some cough medicines as an expectorant, but its efficacy for this indication has not been confirmed and its use as an expectorant may possibly be due to a placebo effect. Paraldehyde was used historically as a sedative and hypnotic 1. It has been used in the treatment of seizures as an anticonvulsant 2. Paraldehyde blocks neuromuscular transmission 3. Paraldehyde is believed to reduce the release of acetylcholine in response to neuronal depolarization 3. The exact mechanism of this effect is unknown. 93% of orally administered paraldehyde is absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. Paraldehyde is believed to undergo depolymerization to acetaldehyde followed by oxidation by aldehyde dehydrogenase [A19378]. It is thought to ultimately be metabolized to carbon dioxide and water. Hover over products below to view reaction partners 70-80% is metabolized to carbon dioxide and subsequently exhaled 4. 11-28% is exhaled as the parent compound. 0.1-2.5% is excreted in the urine as the parent compound. The mean half life is 7.5 hours in a range if 3.5-9.5 hours 4. Paraldehyde overdosage can produce headache, nausea, drowsiness, unconsciousness, coma, severe hypotension, respiratory depression, pulmonary edema and hemorrhages, and right-side heart failure 4. Inhalation of paraldehyde can produce sore throat, headache, dizziness, nausea, drowsiness and unconsciousness but exposure via this route is rare. Chronic use is dependence forming and withdrawal proceeds similarly to ethanol withdrawal producing hallucinations and convulsions. Toxic hepatitis and nephritis have been observed during chronic use. The acute LD50 values determined for various species are as follows 4: Rabbit - 3.3-5 g/kg (oral)
Rat - 1.5-1.65 g/kg (oral), 1.3-1.45 g/kg (i.p.)
Dog - 3-4 g/kg (oral)
Mouse - 2.75 (oral)
Eslicarbazepine acetate | DrugBank Online Eslicarbazepine acetate (ESL) is an anticonvulsant medication approved for use in Europe, the United States and Canada as an adjunctive therapy for partial-onset seizures that are not adequately controlled with conventional therapy. Eslicarbazepine acetate is a prodrug that is rapidly converted to eslicarbazepine, the primary active metabolite in the body. Eslicarbazepine's mechanism of action is not well understood, but it is known that it does exert anticonvulsant activity by inhibiting repeated neuronal firing and stabilizing the inactivated state of voltage-gated sodium channels, thus preventing their return to the activated state during which seizure activity can occur. Eslicarbazepine acetate is marketed as Aptiom in North America and Zebinix or Exalief in Europe. It is available in 200, 400, 600, or 800mg tablets that are taken once daily, with or without food. Eslicarbazepine acetate is associated with numerous side effects including dizziness, drowsiness, nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, aphasia, lack of concentration, psychomotor retardation, speech disturbances, ataxia, depression and hyponatremia. It is recommended that patients taking eslicarbazepine acetate be monitored for suicidality. Eslicarbazepine acetate is indicated as adjunctive therapy in the treatment of partial-onset seizures that are not adequately controlled with conventional therapy in epileptic patients.  Eslicarbazepine acetate is associated with a dose- and concentration-dependant increase in heart rate and prolongation of PR interval. Eslicarbazepine acetate is converted to the active metabolite eslicarbazepine which carries out its anticonvulsant activity. The exact mechanism of action is unknown, but it is thought to involve the inhibition of voltage-gated sodium channels. In in vitro electrophysiological studies, eslicarbazepine was shown to inhibit repeated neuronal firing by stabilizing the inactivated state of voltage-gated sodium channels and preventing their return to the activated state. In vitro studies also showed eslicarbazepine inhibiting T-type calcium channels, which likely also has a role in anticonvulsant activity.  Eslicarbazepine active metabolite has a high bioavailability and reaches peak serum concentration 1-4 hours after a given dose. Eslicarbazepine acetate absorption is not affected by food. The apparent volume of distribution of eslicarbazepine is 61.3 L for a body weight of 70 kg based on population PK analysis. Eslicarbazepine is bound to plasma proteins at a relatively low rate of <40%, independent of concentration. In vitro studies have shown that plasma protein binding is not relevantly affected by the presence of other medications such as warfarin, diazepam, digoxin, phenytoin or tolbutamide. Similarly, the binding of these medications was not significantly affected by the presence of eslicarbazepine.  Eslicarbazepine acetate is rapidly and extensively metabolized to its major active metabolite, eslicarbazepine, via hydrolytic first-pass metabolism. Eslicarbazepine corresponds to about 92% of systemic exposure. Minor active metabolites (R)-licarbazepine and oxcarbazepine consist of <5% of systemic exposure. Active metabolites are then metabolized to inactive glucuronides that correspond to about 3% of systemic exposure. Eslicarbazepine had a moderate inhibitory effect on CYP2C19 and a mild activation of UGT1A1-mediated glucuronidation when studied in human hepatic microsomes. It has been shown to induce CYP3A4 enzymes in vivo. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Eslicarbazepine acetate and its metabolites are eliminated primarily via renal excretion. Eslicarbazepine active metabolite is excreted two-thirds in the unchanged form and one-third as a glucuronide conjugate. This accounts for around 90% of total metabolites excreted, with the remaining 10% being minor metabolites. Renal tubular reabsorption is expected to occur with eslicarbazepine. The apparent plasma half-life of eslicarbazepine is 10-20 hours in healthy subjects and 13-20 hours in epilepsy patients. Steady-state plasma concentrations are attained after 4 to 5 days of once daily dosing. Renal clearance of eslicarbazepine was found to be approximately 20 mL/min in healthy subjects with normal renal function. There are no adequate and well-controlled studies of the use of eslicarbazepine acetate in pregnant women. In studies conducted in pregnant mice, rats, and rabbits, eslicarbazepine acetate did show developmental toxicities, including teratogenicity, embryolethality, and fetal growth retardation, at clinically relevant doses.
Drug-induced liver injury ranging from mild to moderate elevations in transaminases (>3 times the upper limit of normal) to rare cases with concomitant elevations of total bilirubin (>2 times the upper limit of normal) have been reported with the use of eslicarbazepine.
Zucapsaicin | DrugBank Online Zucapsaicin, the cis-isomer of capsaicin, is a topical analgesic used to treat osteoarthritis of the knee and other neuropathic pain. It is a modulator of transient receptor potential cation channel subfamily V member 1 (TRPV-1), also known as the vanilloid or capsaicin receptor 1, that reduces pain and improves articular functions. Zucapsaicin has also been evaluated for the management of several conditions manifested by chronic nerve pain. These conditions include herpes simplex (HSV) infections, cluster headaches, migraine, and osteoarthritis of the knee. Zucapsaicin was approved by the Health Canada in 2010 as topical cream marketed under the brand name Zuacta but currently not FDA-approved. Indicated to be used in conjunction with oral COX-2 inhibitors or NSAIDs for the relief of severe pain in adult patients with osteoarthritis of the knee, not controlled with oral COX-2 inhibitors or NSAIDs alone, for a duration of no more than three months.  Zucapsaicin mediates an antinociceptive action via acting as an agonist at TRPV1. TRPV1 play an important physiological role of transducing chemical, mechanical and thermal stimuli as well as pain transduction, and participate in pain modulation and perception. They are mainly distributed in C sensory nerve fibers as well as Aẟ fibers to transmit sensory information involving inflammatory and neuropathic pain, and activation of these channels releasesomatostatin, calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and other neuropeptides (neurokinin A, kassinin), leading to neurogenic inflammation 1. Zucapsaicin is also reported to affect the peptidergic afferent neurons via a desensitization mechanism to decrease the levels of dorsal root ganglia and sciatic calcitonin gene-related peptide (CGRP) and substance P (SP) 5.  Zucapsaicin excites and desensitizes C-fibers via agonist at TRPV1 on nociceptive neurons. It binds to intracellular sites and initially stimulates the channels, causing burning sensation. Activation of TRPV1 results in calcium influx and sodium, which leads to cell depolarization. Hypersensitization by zucapsaicin is then followed by reduced sensitivity and persistent desensitization (tachyphylaxis) of the channels via various pathways. Densentiziation is thought to be dependent on intraceullar levels of calcium 4. Decreased TRPV1 channel action and release of inflammatory neuropeptides induces an analgesic effect, and pain relief 1,2. Zucapsaicin activates calcineurin and calcium-dependent protein kinase C isoforms which results in phosphorylation of TRPV1. Phosphorylation of TRPV1 enhances reponsivity to zucapsaicin by potentiating capsaicin- or proton-evoked responses and reducing the temperature threshold for TRPV1 activation 4. Studies suggest that zucapsaicin is involved in activation of phospholipase C with the subsequent phosphatidylinositol 4,5-biphosphate (PIP2) hydrolysis, which results in TRPV1 inactivation 4.
Dienogest | DrugBank Online Dienogest is an orally-active semisynthetic progestogen which also possesses the properties of 17α-hydroxyprogesterone. It is a derivative of 19-nortestosterone and has antiandrogenic properties. It is primarily used as a contraceptive in combination with ethinylestradiol, or in other combination form pills approved in United States and Europe however it is not available in the US by itself. In Europe, Australia, Malaysia, Singapore and Japan, dienogest single therapy is an approved treatment for endometriosis to alleviate painful symptoms of endometriosis and reduce endometriotic lesions 1. Dienogest is commonly marketed as Visanne, Natazia and Qlaira. Indicated for use as the treatment of endometriosis alone and as a contraceptive in combination with ethinylestradiol.  Dienogest exhibits a very potent progestagenic effect in the endometrium, and causes endometrial atrophy after prolonged use 2 . It also mediates an antiandrogenic effect that is equivalent to approximately one third that of cyproterone acetate 4. A dose of 2 mg inhibits the growth of ovarian follicles at 10 mm and maintains the concentration of progesterone at a low level, but has a weak inhibitory effect on FSH and LH. 1mg/kg of dienogest also directly inhibits ovulation 2. In clinical trials composing of patients with endometriosis, dienogest therapy effectively reduced painful symptoms and endometriotic lesions associated with the disorder 1.
Dienogest displays no antiestrogenic activity as it activate neither estrogen receptor (ER) α nor ERβ [A16570], and causes hypoestrogenic effects instead as it is shown to decrease the relative expressions of ERβ and ERα 3. It has no glucocorticoid or mineralocorticoid effects. In combined oral contraceptive pills (COCP) with ethinyloestradiol, dienogest conjuction therapy effectively reduces the symptoms of acne and hirsutism, as well as improving excessively heavy or prolonged menstrual bleeding 2. Dienogest acts as an agonist at the progesterone receptor (PR) with weak affinity that is comparable to that of progesterone but has a very potent progestagenic effect in the endometrium, causing endometrial atrophy after prolonged use 2. It promotes antiproliferative, immunologic and antiangiogenic effects on endometrial tissue. Dienogest reduces the level of endogenous production of oestradiol and thereby suppressing the trophic effects of oestradiol on both the eutopic and ectopic endometrium 5. Continous administration of dienogest results in hyperprogestogenic and moderately hypoestrogenic endocrine environment, which causes initial decidualization of endometrial tissue 4.
Potassium citrate | DrugBank Online Potassium citrate (also known as tripotassium citrate) is a potassium salt of citric acid. It is a white, hygroscopic crystalline powder. It is odorless with a saline taste. It contains 38.3% potassium by mass. In the monohydrate form it is highly hygroscopic and deliquescent.
Potassium citrate is used to treat a kidney stone condition called renal tubular acidosis. Potassium Citrate is indicated also for the management of Hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis. For the management of renal tubular acidosis, hypocitraturic calcium oxalate nephrolithiasis, and uric acid lithiasis with or without calcium stones. Potassium citrate induces changes in the urine which renders urine less susceptible to the formation of crystals and stones from salts e.g. calcium oxalate, calcium phosphate and uric acid. Increased citrate levels in the urine will make complexation with calcium which decrease the calcium ion activity and decrease the chance for the formation of calcium phosphate crystals.
Cupric Chloride | DrugBank Online Cupric chloride, for injection, is a sterile, nonpyrogenic solution intended for use as an additive to solutions for Total Parenteral Nutrition (TPN). For use as a supplement to intravenous solutions given for total parenteral nutrition (TPN). Copper is an essential nutrient which serves as a co factor for serum ceruloplasmin, an oxidase necessary for proper formation of the iron carrier protein, transferrin. Copper also helps maintain normal rates of red and white blood cell formation. Providing copper during Total Parenteral Nutrition helps prevent development of the following deficiency symptoms: Leukopenia, neutropenia, anemia, depressed ceruloplasmin levels, impaired transferrin formation, secondary iron deficiency and osteoporosis. The in vitro interaction of organic copper compounds with rat liver glutathione S-transferases was studied with reduced glutathione and 1-chloro-2,4-dinitrobenzene as substrates. Both organic and inorganic copper are spontaneously conjugated with glutathione, but interact with glutathione S-transferase by direct binding to these proteins.  Mean copper absorption of 57 percent (range 40 to 70 per cent) following oral administration of 0.4 - 4.5 mg copper (as copper acetate) to four volunteers. An early human study suggested a maximum blood copper concentration was reached some two hours after oral copper chloride administration (1.5 - 12 mg copper) Copper is distributed to all tissues with the highest concentrations in liver, heart, brain, kidneys and muscle. Intracellular copper is predominantly metallothionein-bound.
Reported copper in the lungs, liver, kidney, blood, bile and stomach (33.7, 35.1, 41.4, 13.8, 2.8, and 2988 µg/g wet weight respectively) Renal LD50 not available
Gadoteric acid | DrugBank Online Gadoteric acid is a macrocycle-structured gadolinium-based MRI contrast agent. It is composed of the organic acid DOTA (1,4,7,10-tetraazacyclododecane-1,4,7,10-tetraacetic acid) used for its chelating properties, and gadolinium (Gd3+). As a paramagnetic molecule, gadoterate develops a magnetic moment when placed in a magnetic field. This magnetic moment enhances the relaxation rates of water protons in its vicinity, leading to an increase in signal intensity (brightness) of tissues. More specifically, it reduces the T1 relaxation time (and to some extent the T2 and T2* relaxation times) in NMR, which is the source of its clinical utility. Increased signal brightness allows it to be used in imaging of blood vessels and of inflamed or diseased tissue where the blood vessels become 'leaky'.  Gadoteric acid, as the FDA approved product Dotarem, is indicated for intravenous use with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in brain (intracranial), spine and associated tissues in adult and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) to detect and visualize areas with disruption of the blood brain barrier (BBB) and/or abnormal vascularity. Gadoteric acid is indicated for intravenous use with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) in brain (intracranial), spine and associated tissues in adult and pediatric patients (2 years of age and older) to detect and visualize areas with disruption of the blood brain barrier (BBB) and/or abnormal vascularity. Gadoterate affects proton relaxation times and consequently the MR signal, and the contrast obtained is characterized by the relaxivity of the gadoterate molecule. The relaxivity values for gadoterate are similar across the spectrum of magnetic field strengths used in clinical MRI (0.2 - 1.5 T).
Iothalamic acid | DrugBank Online Iothalamic acid is an iodine containing organic anion used as a diagnostic contrast agent. Conray is indicated for use in excretory urography, cerebral angiography, peripheral arteriography, venography, arthrography, direct cholangiography, endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography, contrast enhancement of computed tomographic brain images, cranial computerized angiotomography, intravenous digital subtraction angiography and arterial digital subtraction angiography.
Ioversol | DrugBank Online Ioversol is classified as an organoiodine compound and is used as a contrast dye in diagnostic procedures. It contains high levels of iodine in addition to various hydrophilic groups. Optiray 350 is indicated in adults for peripheral and coronary arteriography and left ventriculography. Optiray 350 is also indicated for contrast enhanced computed tomographic imaging of the head and body, intravenous excretory urography, intravenous digital subtraction angiography and venography. Optiray 350 is indicated in children for angiocardiography.
Optiray 320 is indicated in adults for angiography throughout the cardiovascular system. The uses include cerebral, coronary, peripheral, visceral and renal arteriography, venography, aortography, and left ventriculography. Optiray 320 is also indicated for contrast enhanced computed tomographic imaging of the head and body, and intravenous excretory urography.
Optiray 320 is indicated in children for angiocardiography, contrast enhanced computed tomographic imaging of the head and body, and intravenous excretory urography.
Optiray 300 is indicated for cerebral angiography and peripheral arteriography. Optiray 300 is also indicated for contrast enhanced computed tomographic imaging of the head and body, venography, and intravenous excretory urography.
Optiray 240 is indicated for cerebral angiography and venography. Optiray 240 is also indicated for contrast enhanced computed tomographic imaging of the head and body and intravenous excretory urography. Intravascular injection of ioversol opacifies those vessels in the path of the flow of the contrast medium, permitting radiographic visualization of the internal structures until significant hemodilution occurs. Optiray enhances computed tomographic imaging through augmentation of radiographic efficiency with the degree of density enhancement directly related to the iodine content in an administered dose. Ioversol may be visualized in the renal parenchyma within 30 to 60 seconds following rapid intravenous injection. Opacification of the calyces and pelves in patients with normal renal function becomes apparent within 1 to 3 minutes, with optimum contrast occurring within 5 to 15 minutes. Ioversol does not bind to serum or plasma proteins. No significant metabolism, deiodination or biotransformation occurs. Ioversol is excreted mainly through the kidneys following intravascular administration. Greater than 95% of the administered dose was excreted within the first 24 hours, with the peak urine concentration occurring in the first 2 hours after administration. Fecal elimination was negligible. 1.5 hr Serious adverse reactions have been reported due to the inadvertent intrathecal administration of iodinated contrast media that are not indicated for intrathecal use. These serious adverse reactions include death, convulsions, cerebral hemorrhage, coma, paralysis, arachnoiditis, acute renal failure, cardiac arrest, seizures, rhabdomyolysis, hyperthermia, and brain edema.
Serious, rarely fatal, thromboembolic events causing myocardial infarction and stroke have been reported during angiographic procedures with both ionic and nonionic contrast media. Therefore, meticulous intravascular administration technique is necessary, particularly during angiographic procedures, to minimize thromboembolic events.
Ioxilan | DrugBank Online Ioxilan is a tri-iodinated diagnostic contrast agent. Intravascular injection results in opacification of vessels in the path of flow of the contrast medium, permitting radiographic visualization of the internal structures of the human body until significant hemodilution occurs. When administered intra-arterially, Ioxilan is indicated for the following diagnostic tests: cerebral arteriography (300 mgI/mL), coronary arteriography and left ventriculography (350 mgI/mL), visceral angiography(350 mgI/mL), aortography(350 mgI/mL), and peripheral arteriography(350 mgI/mL).
Oxygen | DrugBank Online Oxygen is an element displayed by the symbol O, and atomic number 8. It is an essential element for human survival. Decreased oxygen levels may be treated with medical oxygen therapy. Treatment with oxygen serves to increase blood oxygen levels and also exerts a secondary effect of decreasing blood flow resistance in the diseased lung, leading to decreased cardiovascular workload in an attempt to oxygenate the lungs. Oxygen therapy is used to treat emphysema, pneumonia, some heart disorders (congestive heart failure), some disorders that cause increased pulmonary artery pressure, and any disease that impairs the body's ability to take up and use gaseous oxygen. Higher level of oxygen than ambient air (hyperoxia) can be introduced under normobaric or hyperbaric conditions. Oxygen therapy in clinical settings is used across diverse specialties, including various types of anoxia, hypoxia or dyspnea and any other disease states and conditions that reduce the efficiency of gas exchange and oxygen consumption such as respiratory illnesses, trauma, poisonings and drug overdoses. Oxygen therapy tries to achieve hyperoxia 6 to reduce the extent of hypoxia-induced tissue damage and malfunction.  Oxygen therapy improves effective cellular oxygenation, even at a low rate of tissue perfusion. Oxygen molecules adjust hypoxic ventilatory drive by acting on chemoreceptors on carotid bodies that sequentially relay sensory information to the higher processing centers in brainstem. It also attenuates hypoxia-induced mitochondrial depolarization that generates reactive oxygen species and/or apoptosis.
Iron sucrose | DrugBank Online Iron sucrose (sucroferric oxyhydroxide or iron saccharate) is used as a source of iron in patients with iron deficiency anemia with chronic kidney disease (CKD), including those who are undergoing dialysis (hemodialysis or peritoneal) and those who do not require dialysis. Due to less side effects than iron dextran, iron sucrose is more preferred in chronic kidney disease patients. Iron sucrose is elemental iron as an injection. It replenishes body iron stores in patients with iron deficiency. Significant increases in serum iron and serum ferritin and significant decreases in total iron binding capacity occurred four weeks from the initiation of iron sucrose treatment. Following intravenous administration, iron sucrose is dissociated into iron and sucrose and the iron is transported as a complex with transferrin to target cells including erythroid precursor cells. The iron is then incorporated into hemoglobin as the cells mature into red blood cells. The intravensously administered iron sucrose injection would result rapidly in high serum iron levels. Maximum measured levels occured after 10 min of injection with an average of 30.00 mg/l. Vd is 7.3 L It binds with transferrin. Following IV administration, dissociated into iron and sucrose by the reticuloendothelial system. Renal elimination of iron contributed very little to the total elimination (in average less than 5%).
While, renal elimination of sucrose accounts for 68-75% of the administered dose after 4 and 24 hours respectively.  6 hours. Total body clearance is 20.5 ml/min. Hypersensitivity reactions, including anaphylactic shock, loss of consciousness, collapse, hypotension, dyspnea, and seizure.
Monitor iron toxicity through the periodic evaluation of lab works which monitor the body concentration of iron. Lab monitoring of the following parameters: transferrin saturation, serum ferritin concentrations, hemoglobin, and hematocrit could be helpful to avoid iron overload.
Fludeoxyglucose (18F) | DrugBank Online Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection is a positron emitting radiopharmaceutical containing no-carrier added radioactive 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluoro-D-g1ucose, which is used for diagnostic purposes in conjunction with Positron Emission Tomography (PET). It is administered by intravenous injection. The uptake of 18F-FDG by tissues is a marker for the tissue uptake of glucose, which in turn is closely correlated with certain types of tissue metabolism.
Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection is indicated in positron emission tomography (PET) imaging for assessment of abnormal glucose metabolism to assist in the evaluation of malignancy in patients with known or suspected abnormalities found by other testing modalities, or in patients with an existing diagnoses of cancer.  Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection is rapidly distributed to all organs of the body after intravenous administration. After background clearance of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection, optimal PET imaging is generally achieved between 30 to 40 minutes after administration.
In cancer, the cells are generally characterized by enhanced glucose metabolism partially due to (1) an increase in the activity of glucose transporters, (2) an increased rate of phosphorylation activity, (3) a reduction of phosphatase activity or, (4) a dynamic alteration in the balance among all these
processes. However, glucose metabolism of cancer as reflected by Fludeoxyglucose F 18 accumulation shows considerable variability. Depending on tumor type, stage, and location, Fludeoxyglucose F 18 accumulation may be increased, normal, or decreased. Also, inflammatory cells can have the same variability of uptake of Fludeoxyglucose F 18.
In the heart, under normal aerobic conditions, the myocardium meets the bulk of its energy requirements by oxidizing free fatty acids. Most of the exogenous glucose taken up by the myocyte is converted into glycogen. However, under ischemic conditions, the oxidation of free fatty acids decreases, exogenous glucose becomes the preferred myocardial substrate, glycolysis is stimulated, and glucose taken up by the myocyte is metabolized immediately instead of being converted into glycogen. Under these conditions, phosphorylated Fludeoxyglucose F 18 accumulates in the myocyte and can be detected with PET imaging.
Normally, the brain relies on anaerobic metabolism. In epilepsy, the glucose metabolism varies. Generally, during a seizure glucose metabolism increases. Interictally, the seizure focus tends to be hypometabolic. Fludeoxyglucose F 18 is a glucose analog that concentrates in cells that rely upon glucose as an energy source, or in cells whose dependence on glucose increases under pathophysiological conditions. Fludeoxyglucose F 18 is transported through the cell membrane by facilitative glucose transporter proteins and is phosphorylated within the cell to [18F] FDG-6- phosphate by the enzyme hexokinase. Once phosphorylated it cannot exit until it is dephosphorylated by glucose-6-phosphatase. Therefore, within a given tissue or pathophysiological process, the retention and clearance of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 reflect a balance involving glucose transporter, hexokinase and glucose-6- phosphatase activities. When allowance is made for the kinetic differences between glucose and Fludeoxyglucose F 18 transport and phosphorylation (expressed as the “lumped constant” ratio), Fludeoxyglucose F 18 is used to assess glucose metabolism.
In comparison to background activity of the specific organ or tissue type, regions of decreased or absent uptake of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 reflect the decrease or absence of glucose metabolism. Regions of increased uptake of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 reflect greater than normal rates of glucose metabolism.  Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection is rapidly distributed to all organs of the body after intravenous administration. Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection is rapidly distributed to all organs of the body after intravenous administration. The extent of binding of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 to plasma proteins is not known.  Fludeoxyglucose F 18 is transported into cells and phosphorylated to [18F]-FDG-6-phosphate at a rate proportional to the rate of glucose utilization within that tissue. [18F]-FDG-6-phosphate presumably is metabolized to 2-deoxy-2-[18F] fluoro-6-phospho-Dmannose ([18F]FDM-6-phosphate).
Nitrogen | DrugBank Online Nitrogen is a chemical element with symbol N and atomic number 7. At room temperature, it is a transparent, odorless diatomic gas.
Liquid nitrogen is used principally in cryotherapy for removal of diseased skin. Liquid nitrogen helps in removal of skin lesions through necrosis, which results from the freezing and thawing of cells. Cryotherapy usually done in doctors' office. Also, nitrogen is very famous component in fertilizers and energy-stores. Liquid nitrogen is used mainly as a cryogenic agent for the treatment of various benign and malignant skin lesions.  In cryotherapy, mechanism of action could be classified into three stages: 1. heat transfer, 2. cell injury and 3. inflammation.
Boiling point of liquid nitrogen is -196°C, which is the responsible for creating the initial stage which is heat transfer. The second stage is cell injury which is induced during thawing conditions of the cells. The last step in the cryotherapy is the inflammation stage which is characterized by edema and erythema. Inflammation occurs as a result of cellular death and it helps in local cell destruction. For local use only, no systemic absorption.  For local use only.  for local use only, not bound to protein.  For local use only.  For local use only.  For local use only.  For local use only.  Liquid nitrogen:
Serious adverse effects include hemorrhage, infection, and excessive granulation tissue formation.
Sodium chloride | DrugBank Online Sodium chloride, also known as salt, common salt, table salt or halite, is an ionic compound with the chemical formula NaCl, representing a 1:1 ratio of sodium and chloride ions. Sodium chloride is the primary salt in seawater and in the extracellular fluid of many multicellular organisms. It is listed on the World Health Organization Model List of Essential Medicines. This intravenous solution is indicated for use in adults and pediatric patients as a source of electrolytes and water for hydration. Also, designed for use as a diluent and delivery system for intermittent intravenous administration of compatible drug additives.  Sodium, the major cation of the extracellular fluid, functions primarily in the control of water distribution, fluid balance, and osmotic pressure of body fluids. Sodium is also associated with chloride and bicarbonate in the regulation of the acid-base equilibrium of body fluid.
Sodium citrate | DrugBank Online Sodium citrate is the sodium salt of citric acid. It is white, crystalline powder or white, granular crystals, slightly deliquescent in moist air, freely soluble in water,
practically insoluble in alcohol. Like citric acid, it has a sour taste.
Helium | DrugBank Online Helium is a second most abundant chemical element in the universe with symbol He and atomic number 2. It is a colorless, odorless, tasteless, non-toxic, inert, monatomic gas located at the top of the noble gases on the periodic table. Its boiling and melting points are the lowest among all the elements. Its clinical benefit in inhalation therapy arises from its advantageous physical properties than ambient air. Helium has lower density than air and generates less resistance than to provide improved lung ventilation. It is also used as an analytical reagent in diagnostic/imaging tests to detect respiratory function of the patient. For use in patients who are not getting enough oxygen into their blood due to blockages in the lungs from pathological conditions or injuries. Suggested potential benefit in upper airway obstruction, in severe asthma, and in exacerbations of COPD/COLD. Helium may be used in place of carbon monoxide during laparoscopic surgeries as it lowers the risk of developing respiratory acidosis in selected patients.  Helium provides lung ventilation and prevents narrowing or collapse in respiratory units. It increases the tendency to laminar flow and reduces the resistance in turbulent flow, leading to more efficient penetration of gases to the distal alveoli, higher minute volumes and improved ventilation.  Due to its lower density, helium achieves more effective flow of gas due to lowered resistance to gas flow within the airways and reduces the work of breathing by decreasing the pressure gradient needed to achieve a turbulent flow 6. Helium has a higher diffusion coefficient for carbon dioxide relative to oxygen thus promotes exhalation of trapped carbon dioxide. This reduces hypercapnia and normalizes pH.
Iopromide | DrugBank Online Iopromide is a low osmolar, non-ionic X-ray contrast agent for intravascular administration. It functions as a contrast agent by opacifying blood vessels in the path of flow of the contrast agent, permitting radiographic visualization of the internal structures until significant hemodilution occurs. Available as the FDA-approved product Ultravist, iopromide is used in radiographic studies such as intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography (IA-DSA), cerebral and peripheral arteriography, peripheral venography, excretory urography, brain computer tomography (CT), coronary arteriography, left ventriculography, visceral angiography, and aortography. Iopromide, as the product Iovist, is indicated for use as an X-ray contrast agent in the following procedures:
Intra-arterial digital subtraction angiography (IA-DSA) (150 mg I/mL)
Cerebral arteriography and peripheral arteriography (300 mg I/mL)
Coronary arteriography and left ventriculography, visceral angiography and aortography (370 mg I/mL)
Peripheral venography (240 mg I/mL)
Excretory urography (300 mg I/mL)
Contrast computed tomography (CT) imaging of head and body (300 mg I/mL and 370 mg I/mL)  Iopromide is a low osmolar, non-ionic X-ray contrast agent for intravascular administration. It functions as a contrast agent by opacifying blood vessels in the path of flow of the contrast agent, permitting radiographic visualization of the internal structures until significant hemodilution occurs. Following administration, the degree of contrast enhancement is directly related to the iodine content in the administered dose; peak iodine plasma levels occur immediately following rapid intravenous injection. Iodine plasma levels fall rapidly within 5 to 10 minutes, which can be accounted for by the dilution in the vascular and extravascular fluid compartments. Contrast enhancement appears to be greatest immediately after bolus injections (15 seconds to 120 seconds). Thus, greatest enhancement may be detected by a series of consecutive two-to-three second scans performed within 30 to 90 seconds after injection (that is, dynamic computed tomographic imaging).
Injection may be visualized in the renal parenchyma within 30–60 seconds following rapid intravenous injection. Opacification of the calyces and pelves in patients with normal renal function becomes apparent within 1–3 minutes, with optimum contrast occurring within 5–15 minutes. 16 L Plasma protein binding of iopromide is 1%. Iopromide is not metabolized. The amounts excreted unchanged in urine represent 97% of the dose in young healthy subjects. Only 2% of the dose is recovered in the feces. Similar recoveries in urine and feces are observed in middle-aged and elderly patients. This finding suggests that, compared to the renal route, biliary and/or gastrointestinal excretion is not important for iopromide. During the slower terminal phase only 3% of the dose is eliminated; 97% of the dose is disposed of during the earlier phases, the largest part of which occurs during the main elimination phase. After intravenous administration to healthy young volunteers, plasma iopromide concentration time profile shows an initial distribution phase with a half-life of 0.24 hour; a main elimination phase with a half-life of 2 hours; and a terminal elimination phase with a half-life of 6.2 hours.  The mean total and renal clearances are 107 mL/min and 104 mL/min, respectively. Most common adverse reactions (>1%) are headache, nausea, injection site and infusion site reactions, vasodilatation, vomiting, back pain, urinary urgency, chest pain, pain, dysgeusia, and abnormal vision.
Sodium citrate | DrugBank Online Sodium citrate is the sodium salt of citric acid. It is white, crystalline powder or white, granular crystals, slightly deliquescent in moist air, freely soluble in water,
practically insoluble in alcohol. Like citric acid, it has a sour taste.
Technetium Tc-99m disofenin | DrugBank Online Technetium Tc-99m disofenin is a radiopharmaceutical agent used in hepatobiliary imaging for diagnostic purposes. It is well suited for both planar and single photon tomographic scintigraphy to quantitatively measure the function of liver, gallbladder and bile ducts and detect any anatomical changes in the hepatobliary system. It is available as an intravenous injection in a preparation kit under the name Hepatolite. Technetium Tc-99m is a metastable nuclear isomer and disofenin is an iminodiacetic acid derivative with no known pharmacologic actions at the doses recommended. However disofenin is the most commonly used iminodiacetic acid since it has a high liver to renal extraction and its hepatic uptake is not as highly dependent on serum bilirubin levels (a competitive inhibitor for liver uptake) as are other tracers from the iminodiacetic acid. Technetium Tc99m Disofenin is indicated as a hepatobiliary imaging agent. Hepatolite is indicated in the diagnosis of acute cholecystitis as well as to rule out the occurrence of acute cholecystitis in suspected patients with right upper quadrant pain, fever, jaundice, right upper quadrant tenderness and mass or rebound tenderness, but not limited to these signs and symptoms. Technetium Tc99m is a medical radioisotope that is taken up by the liver and accumulates in the hepatobiliary system. Non-visualization of the gallbladder 4 hours after administration of Hepatolite following a 2-6 hour fast and in the presence of activity in the small intestine is indicative of a diagnosis of acute cholecystitis in an otherwise healthy individual. Under the same conditions in an otherwise healthy person, visualization of the gallbladder during a 1 hour scintigraphy is effective in excluding a diagnosis of acute cholecystitis. If the gallbladder is not visualized by 1 hour, scanning must continue for four hours or until the gallbladder is visualized 9. Morphine can be administered to shorten the scanning time and improve visualiation in failure of visualization of the gallbladder with Technetium Tc99m disofenin.  Gallbladder visualization and visualization of intestinal activity occurs by 60 minutes post-injection in individuals with normal hepatobiliary function.
Etizolam | DrugBank Online Etizolam is a thienodiazepine which is chemically related to benzodiazepine (BDZ) drug class; it differs from BDZs in having a benzene ring replaced with a thiophene ring. It is an agonist at GABA-A receptors and possesses amnesic, anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, hypnotic, sedative and skeletal muscle relaxant properties. Initially introduced in 1983 in Japan as treatment for neurological conditions such as anxiety and sleep disorders, etizolam is marketed in Japan, Italy and India. It is not approved for use by FDA in the US; however it remains unscheduled in several states and is legal for research purposes. Indicated for the treatment of generalized anxiety disorder with depression, panic disorder and insomnia. Etizolam is a CNS depressant with anxiolytic, anticonvulsant, sedative-hypnotic and muscle relaxant effects. It acts on the benzodiazepine site of the GABA-A receptor as an agonist to increase inhibitory GABAergic transmission throughout the central nervous system. Studies indicate that etizolam mediates its pharmacological actions with 6 to 10 times more potency than that of diazepam. Clinical human studies performed in Italy showed clinical effectiveness of etizolam in relieving symptoms in patients with generalized anxiety disorders with depressive symptoms 2,3,4. Etizolam also mediates imipramine-like neuropharmacological and behavioral effects, as well as minor effects on cognitive functioning. It is shown to substitute the actions of a short-acting barbiturate, pentobarbitol, in a drug discrimination study 8.
Etizolam is an antagonist at platelet-activating-factor (PAF) receptor and attenuates the recurrence of chronic subdural hematoma after neurosurgery in clinical studies 9. It is shown to inhibit PAF-induced bronchoconstriction and hypotension 5. Etizolam is selectively a full agonist at GABA-A receptors to increase GABAergic transmission and enhance GABA-induced Cl- currents 1. It is reported to bind to the benzodiazepine binding site which is located across the interface between the alpha and gamma subunits. Benzodiazapines are reported to only bind to receptors that contain gamma 2 and alpha 1/2/3/5 subunits 7. Alpha-1-containing receptors mediate the sedative effects of etizolam whereas alpha-2 and alpha-3 subunit-containing receptors mediate the anxiolytic effect 7. Etizolam shows high potency and affinity towards GABA-A receptor with alpha 1 beta 2 gamma 2S subunit combination 1. By binding to the regulatory site of the receptor, etizolam potentiates GABA transmission by facilitating the opening of GABA-induced chloride channels 7.
Etizolam is a specific antagonist at PAFR. It inhibits PAF-induced platelet aggregation by inhibiting PAF binding to the receptors located on the surface of platelets with an IC50 of 22nM 5. Etizolam is well absorbed from the intestines with a biological bioavailability of 93% following oral administration. After a single oral dosing of 0.5mg etizolam, it takes approximately 0.9 hours to reach the peak plasma concentration of 8.3 ng/mL 9.  Apparent distribution volume was 0.9 ± 0.2 L/kg following a single oral doing of 0.5mg etizolam 9. Biotransformation of etizolam is extensive and involves hydroxylation and conjugation 9. The main metabolite formed via 1'-hydroxylation is α-hydroxyetizolam which retains pharmacological activity comparable to that of the parent drug, indicating that the action of metabolites may contribute to the clinical effects of etizolam 6. CYP3A4 is predicted to be the main CYP enzyme responsible for mediating etizolam metabolism. CYP2C18 and CYP2C19 are also involved in the metabolic pathways 9,5.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners In a rat study, the amounts of etizolam excreted was 30% in urine was 70% in feces, while the values in a mouse study were 40% in urine and 60% in feces 9. The average elimination half life of etizolam following a single oral dose of 0.5mg is 3.4 hours but may be increased up to 17 hours depending on the rate of metabolism 9. The main metabolite α-hydroxyetizolam displays a longer elimination half life of 8.2 hours 6. Major adverse effects include drowsiness, sedation, muscle weakness and incoordination, fainting, headache, confusion, depression, slurred speech, visual disturbances and changes in libido and tremor 8. Flumazenil is a competitive antagonist of GABA-A receptors and can be also used to reverse the effect of etizolam overdosage. Etizolam demonstrates no effects on fertility, development and teratogenicity 9. LD50 values of etizolam when delivered orally, intraperitoneally, and subcutaneously are 3509mg/kg, 825mg/kg, and >5000mg/kg in rats, respectively, and 3070mg/kg, 783mg/kg and 5000mg/kg in mice, respectively MSDS.  Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Tahara T, Araki K, Shiroki M, Matsuo H, Munakata T. Syntheses and structure-activity relationships of 6-aryl-4H-s-triazolo[3,4-c]thieno[2,3-e] [1,4]diazepines. Arzneimittelforschung.
Dosulepin | DrugBank Online Dosulepin (INN, BAN) formerly known as dothiepin (USAN), is a tricyclic antidepressant with anxiolytic properties that is used in several European and South Asian countries, as well as Australia, South Africa, and New Zealand. It is not FDA-approved due to low therpeutic index and significant toxicity in overdose. Dosulepin inhibits the reuptake of biogenic amines, increasing available neurotransmitter levels at the synaptic cleft. The use of dosulepsin is only recommended in patients who are intolerant or unresponsive to alternative antidepressant therapies. Dosulepsin is a thio derivative of Amitriptyline with a similar efficacy to that of Amitriptyline, and also exhibits anticholinergic, antihistamine and central sedative properties 8.
Its hydrochloride form is a common active ingredient in different drug formulations. Indicated in the treatment of symptoms of depressive illness, especially where an anti-anxiety effect is required. Dosulepin is a tricyclic antidepressant that interacts with various receptors and transporters. It is a monoamine reuptake inhibitor with approximately equal potency for noradrenaline and 5-HT that increases the availability of these neurotransmitters at the central synapses 8. The metabolites of dosulepin are shown to inhibit 5HT uptake by the human blood platelet 2. By binding to noradrenaline transporter (NAT) and serotonin transporter (SERT) in an equipotent manner and inhibiting the reuptake activity, dosulepin increases the free levels of noradrenaline and 5HT at the synaptic cleft. It is shown that the main metabolite northiaden is a more potent inhibitor of noradrenaline uptake than the parent drug 5.  Dosulepin displays affinity towards α2-adrenoceptors and to a lesser extent, α1-adrenoceptors 4. Inhibition of presynaptic α2-adrenoceptors by dosulepin facilitates noradrenaline release and further potentiates the antidepressant effects 5. It also downregulates central β-adrenoceptors by causing a decline in the number of receptors and reduces noradrenaline-induced cyclic AMP formation 7,5.
Butyrfentanyl | DrugBank Online Butyrfentanyl or butyrylfentanyl (not to be confused with 3-methylfentanyl) is a potent short-acting synthetic opioid analgesic drug.1 It is an analog of fentanyl with roughly 1/30 the potency.6 Butyrfentanyl was first synthesized in 1961 by Janssen Pharmaceuticals as a new opioid analgesic.6 Butyrfentanyl has no current legitimate clinical applications, but anecdotal reports indicate it may occasionally be surfacing on the grey-market as a recreational drug.6 This compound is a schedule I controlled substance in the USA because it is a positional isomer of 3-Methylfentanyl.7 The DEA in the United States has confirmed at least 40 fatalities involving butyrfentanyl before May 2016.6 Butyrfentanyl was investigated as a potential opioid analgesic but is no longer used for this purpose.2 It is more often being used as a recreational drug.2 Data for the pharmacodynamics of butyrfentanyl are not readily available. Butyrfentanyl is a µ opioid receptor agonist similar to fentanyl.6 Data for the absorption of butyrfentanyl are not readily available. Data for the volume of distribution of butyrfentanyl are not readily available. Protein binding studies for butyrfentanyl have not been performed but due to its structural similarity with fentanyl it is likely highly bound to serum albumin and alpha-1-acid glycoprotein in circulation.5 Butyrfentanyl can be N-dealkylated to nor-butyrfentanyl by CYP3A4 and CYP2D6, hydroxylated to (ω-1)-hydroxy-butyrfentanyl by CYP3A4, 4'-hydroxylated to 4'-hydroxy-butyrfentanyl, hydroxylated to ω-hydroxy-butyrfentanyl bye CYP2D6 or CYP3A4, or hydroxylated to β-hydroxy-butyrfentanyl by CYP3A4.1 ω-hydroxy-butyrfentanyl is further metabolized to ω-carboxy-butyrfentanyl while 4'-hydroxy-butyrfentanyl is further metabolized to 4'-hydroxy-3'-methoxy-butyrfentanyl.1 Many of these metabolites may undergo further conjugation reactions with glucuronic acid or sulfate.1 Hover over products below to view reaction partners The route of elimination of butyrfentanyl has not been well described in the literature but most opioids are mainly eliminated in the urine.3 Data for the half life of butyrfentanyl are not readily available. Data for the clearance of butyrfentanyl are not readily available. The LD50 of butyrfentanyl is not readily available.8 Patients experiencing an overdose may present with sedation, altered mental state, and difficulty breathing.4 Symptoms of overdose may be treated with naloxone and supportive measures.4 Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. Janssen PAJ. 1-Aralkyl-4-(N-aryl-carbonyl amino)piperidines and related compounds. US
Viloxazine | DrugBank Online Viloxazine is a selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (NRI) that was used in some European countries as an antidepressant drug. It structurally differs from conventional tri- or tetra-cyclic antidepressants and it does not produce sedative anticholinergic or adrenergic effects in man 1. While displaying amphetamine-like CNS stimulant effects, there is little evidence of drug dependence from viloxazine therapy. Viloxazine hydrochloride is a common active ingredient in drug formulation. It was discovered and brought to market in 1976 by Imperial Chemical Industries and in early 2000's, it was withdrawn from the market. Indicated for the treatment of clinical depression. Viloxazine is a selective noradrenaline reuptake inhibitor (NRI) with minimal inhibitory effect on the reuptake of 5-HT. It is also shown to upregulate the levels of GABA-B receptors in the rat frontal cortex. It is shown to form a complex with the human norepinephrine transporter (hNET) 8.
Mepiprazole | DrugBank Online Mepiprazole is a minor tranquilizer with a phenylpiperazine structure. It is a pyrazolyl-alkyl-piperazine derivative. Mepiprazole mediates a weak inhibitory action on the uptake of 5-HT on hypothalamic neurons 7.
Lobeglitazone | DrugBank Online Lobeglitazone is an antidiabetic medication from the thiazolidinedione class of drugs. It primarily functions as an insulin sensitizer by binding and activating Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptors (PPAR) gamma within fat cells. By activating PPAR-gamma and promoting the binding of insulin at fat cells, lobeglitazone thereby has been shown to reduce blood sugar levels, lower hemoglobain A1C (HbA1C) levels, and improve lipid and liver profiles 1. Unlike Pioglitazone, which is a dual PPAR agonist at PPAR-alpha and PPAR-gamma, Lobeglitazone is a pure PPAR-alpha agonist.  Lobeglitazone was approved by the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (South Korea) in 2013, and is being monitored by postmarketing surveillance until 2019. Lobeglitazone is not approved for use by either the Food and Drug Administration (USA), Health Canada, or by the European Medicines Agency for use in the management of diabetes. Lobeglitazone was approved by the Ministry of Food and Drug Safety (South Korea) in 2013, and is being monitored by postmarketing surveillance until 2019. Lobeglitazone is not approved for use by either the Food and Drug Administration (USA), Health Canada, or by the European Medicines Agency for use in the management of diabetes. Lobeglitazone acts as an insulin sensitizer by binding and activating Peroxisome Proliferator-Activated Receptors (PPAR) gamma within fat cells. By promoting the binding of insulin at fat cells, lobeglitazone has been shown to reduce blood sugar levels, lower hemoglobain A1C (HbA1C) levels, and improve lipid and liver profiles 1. Unlike Pioglitazone, which is a dual PPAR agonist at PPAR-alpha and PPAR-gamma, Lobeglitazone is a pure PPAR-alpha agonist.  In rat studies, the AUC for the doses 0.5, 1, and 2 mg/kg, AUC values were determined to be 459, 514, and 481 ug min/mL respectively. Absoprtion occurs rapidly after administration, with Tmax of 67.5 and 48.8 min and a Cmax of 0.962 and 0.4.94 ug/mL following doses of 0.5 and 2 mg/kg, respectively. Absolute bioavailability after oral administration was nearly complete and apparently not affected by the dosage; 92.1% following a 0.5 mg/kg dose and 99.0% following a 2 mg/kg dose. Furthermore, the extent of LB remaining in the GI tract at 24 h was found to be negligible, with values less than 0.2% of the oral dose, suggesting that the intestinal absorption is complete in rats at the dose range studied 2. The steady state volume of distribution (Vss) of lobeglitazone was found to be 189–276 mL/kg. Vss was not found to vary statistically with the dose, suggesting that lobeglitazone follows linear kinetics 2. Lobeglitazone was found to bind extensively to plasma proteins (i.e., up to 99.9%) with no appreciable concentration dependency on the unbound fraction 2. Rat studies with lobeglitazone have suggested that it is primarily metabolized by cytochrome P450 (CYP) isozymes 2, however the exact enzymes involved in its metabolism have yet to be elucidated. The structure of Lobeglitazone's five major metabolites have been characterized along with their pharmacokinetic parameters, and can be seen in the metabolism section below. In rat studies, demethylation and hydroxylation appear to be the primary metabolic pathways. The most abundant metabolite found in these studies was confirmed in vivo as M1, a demethylated derivative of lobeglitazone; its rate of formation was found to be approximately 0.216 ∼ 0.252 mL/min/kg, representing approximately 9.76% of the total lobeglitazone elimination in vivo in rats 5. Hover over products below to view reaction partners It has been reported that the combined extent of the excretion of lobeglitazone to the bile, urine and intestine is low (less than 10% of total dose), suggesting that the
Cirazoline | DrugBank Online Cirazoline acts on a number of α adrenergic receptors. It is an agonist of α1A, partial agonist of α1B and α1D, and a nonselective antagonist of α2. It is believed that this combination of properties could make cirazoline an effective vasoconstricting agent.
Piracetam | DrugBank Online Piracetam is a nootropic drug in the racetams group, with chemical name 2-oxo-1-pyrrolidine acetamide. It shares the same 2-oxo-pyrrolidone base structure with pyroglutamic acid and is a cyclic derivative of the neurotransmitter γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA). However its mechanism of action differ from that of endogenous GABA.Piracetam has neuroprotective and anticonvulsant properties and is reported to improve neural plasticity 1. Its efficacy is documented in cognitive disorders and dementia, vertigo, cortical myoclonus, dyslexia, and sickle cell anemia although the clinical application in these conditions is not yet established. Piracetam has effects on the vascular system by reduce erythrocyte adhesion to vascular endothelium, hinder vasospasm and facilitate microcirculation 1. Originally marketed by UCB Pharma in 1971, piracetam was the first nootropic drug to modulate cognitive function without causing sedation or stimulation 1. It is not approved for any medical or dietary use by the FDA. In the UK, piracetam is prescribed mainly for myoclonus, but is used off-label for other conditions such as learning difficulties in children, memory loss or other cognitive defects in the elderly, and sickle-cell vaso-occlusive crises 4. Evidence to support its use for many conditions is unclear. Indicated in adult patients suffering from myoclonus of cortical origin, irrespective of aetiology, and should be used in combination with other anti-myoclonic therapies 5. Piracetam is known to mediate various pharmacodynamic actions: Neuronal effects:  Piracetam modulates the cholinergic, serotonergic, noradrenergic, and glutamatergic neurotransmission although the drug does not display high affinity to any of the associated receptors (Ki >10μM). Instead, piracetam increases the density of postsynaptic receptors and/or restore the function of these receptors through stabilizing the membrane fluidity 1. In the forebrain of aging mice, the density of NMDA receptors was increased by approximately 20% following 14 days of piracetam treatment. Based on the findings of various animal and human studies, the cognitive processses including learning, memory, attention and consciousness were enhanced from piracetam therapy without inducing sedation and psychostimulant effects 5. Piracetam mediate neuroprotective effects against hypoxia-induced damage, intoxication, and electroconvulsive therapy 5.  In two studies involving alcohol-treated rats with evidences of withdrawal-related neuronal loss, piracetam was shown to reduce the extent of neuronal loss and increase the numbers of synapses in the hippocampus by up to 20% relative to alcohol-treated or alcohol-withdrawn rats 1. This suggests that piracetam is capable in promoting neuroplasticity when recoverable neural circuits are present 1. Although the mechanism of action is not fully understood, administration of piracetam prior to a convulsant stimulus reduces the seizure severity and enhances the anticonvulsant effectiveness of conventional antiepileptics such as carbamazepine and diazepam 3.  Vascular effects:  Piracetam is shown to increase the deformability of erythrocytes, reduce platelet aggregation in a dose-dependent manner, reduce the adhesion of erythrocytes to vascular endothelium and capillary vasospasm. In healthy volunteers, piracetam mediated a direct stimulant effect on prostacycline synthesis and reduced the plasma levels of fibrinogen and von Willebrand’s factors (VIII: C; VIII R: AG; VIII R: vW) by 30 to 40% 5. Potentiated microcirculation is thought to arise from a combination of effects on erythrocytes, blood vessels and blood coagulation 1.  Piracetam interacts with the polar heads in the phospholipids membrane and the resulting mobile drug-lipid complexes are thought to reorganize the lipids and influence membrane function and fluidity 1. Such interaction has been reported in a study that investigated the effects of neuronal outgrowth induced by beta amyloid peptides; while amyloid peptides cause lipid disorganization within the cell membranes leading to neuronal death, piracetam demonstrated to decrease the destabilizing effects of amyloid peptide 2. The authors suggest that piracetam induces a positive curvature of the membrane by occupying the polar groups in the phospholipids to counteract the negative curvature induced by amyloid peptides , which in turn would decrease the likelihood of membrane fusion 1. This mechanism of action is thought to improve membrane stability, allowing the membrane and transmembrane proteins to maintain and recover the three-dimensional structure or folding for normal function 4 such as membrane transport, chemical secretion, and receptor binding and stimulation 1.  Through restored membrane fluidity, piracetam promotes restored neurotransmission such as glutamatergic and cholinergic systems, enhances neuroplasticity and mediates neuroprotective and anticonvulsant effects at the neuronal level 1. It is also demonstrated that piracetam also improves the fluidity of platelet membranes. At the vascular level, piracetam decreases adhesion of erythrocytes to cell wall and reduces vasospasm which in turn improves microcirculation including cerebral and renal blood flow 1.  Piracetam displays a linear and time-dependent pharmacokinetic properties with low intersubject variability over a large range of doses. Piracetam is rapidly and extensively absorbed following oral administration with the peak plasma concentration is reached within 1 hour after dosing in fasted subjects. Following a single oral dose of 3.2 g piracetam, the peak plasma concentration (Cmax) was 84 µg/mL. Intake of food may decrease the Cmax by 17% and increase the time to reach Cmax (Tmax) from 1 to 1.5 hours. Tmax in the cerebrospinal fluid is achieved approximately 5 hours post-administration 4.  The absolute bioavailability of piracetam oral formulations is close to 100% and the steady state plasma concentrations are achieved within 3 days of dosing 4.  Vd is approximately 0.6L/kg. Piracetam may cross the blood-brain barrier as it was measured in the cerebrospinal fluid following intravenous administration 4. Piracetam diffuses
Nicorandil | DrugBank Online Nicorandil is an orally efficacious vasodilatory drug and antianginal agent marketed in the UK, Australia, most of Europe, India, Philippines, Japan, South Korea, and Taiwan. It is not an approved drug by FDA. It is a niacinamide derivative that induces vasodilation of arterioles and large coronary arteries by activating potassium channels. It is often used for patients with angina who remain symptomatic despite optimal treatment ith other antianginal drugs 11. Nicorandil is a dual-action potassium channel opener that relaxes vascular smooth muscle through membrane hyperpolarization via increased transmembrane potassium conductance and increased intracellular concentration of cyclic GMP. It is shown to dilate normal and stenotic coronary arteries and reduces both ventricular preload and afterload 10. Indicated for the prevention and treatment of chronic stable angina pectoris and reduction in the risk of acute coronary syndromes.  Nicorandil is a potassium channel opener with nitrovasodilator (NO donor) actions, making it both an arterial and a venous dilator 11. It causes sustained dilation of both the arterial resistance and conductive vessels that increases coronary blood flow, however the effect of the drug on coronary arteries does not involve the coronary steal phenomenon 12. Activation of potassium channels lead to hyperpolarization of the smooth muscle cells, followed by arterial dilation and afterload reduction. Nicorandil is shown to increase pooling in the capacitance vessels with a decrease in preload through relaxing the venous vascular system. Overall, improved blood flow and reduced infarct size are achieved through reduction of end-diastolix pressure and decreased extravascular component of vascular resistance 12. Open studies showed the effectiveness of nicorandil treatment on various types of angina pectoris 8.  Nicorandil mediates its therapeutic efficacy via two main mechanisms. Nicorandil is an activator and opener of ATP-sensitive (ATP-dependent) potassium channels (KATP channels) that are composed of Kir6.x-type subunits and sulfonylurea receptor (SUR) subunits. Nicorandil binding sites are located in the sulfonylurea receptor 2 (SUR2) in the ATP-sensitive potassium channel 4, which are regulatory subunits of the channel that exhibit an ATPase activitiy 2. There are 2 types of SUR2 subunits (2A/2B) that have identical nucleotide binding domains (NBD), where SUR2A is more predominantly expressed in skeletal and cardiac myocytes and SUR2B in smooth muscle cells 2. Nicorandil more potently activates SUR2B/Kir6.2 than SUR2A/Kir6.2 channels to cause hyperpolarization. ATP-NBD1 interaction influences the channel signalling by nicorandil, and the response of the channel to nicorandil is also facilitated and heightened by the interaction of ATP or ADP with NBD2 3. Potentiated activity of ATP-sensitive channels have cardioprotective role by limiting the duration of action potentials and preventing intraceullar calcium overload 7. This attenuates cellular injury by preserving cellular energetics and ultimately cell survival 6. KATP channel-dependent membrane hyperpolarization can also lead to vasodilation via reduction in Ca2+ influx through the voltage-gated Ca2+ channels and regulation of intracellular Ca2+ mobilization in smooth muscle cells 6.
Efonidipine | DrugBank Online Efonidipine is a calcium channel blocker of the dihydropyridine class, commercialized by Shionogi & Co. (Japan). Initially, it was marketed in 1995 under the trade name, Landel. The drug has been shown to block T-type in addition to L-type calcium channels 1,2. It has also been studied in atherosclerosis and acute renal failure 2. This drug is also known as NZ-105, and several studies have been done on its pharmacokinetics in animals 13. For the treatment of hypertension. Dihydropyridines (DHPs), act mainly on L-type calcium channels, essentially causing reflex tachycardia, which negatively affects cardiac function. This leads to a decrease in blood pressure and an increase in heart rate. Efonidipine acts on both L-type and T-type calcium channels. Because inhibition of T-type calcium channels in the sinoatrial (SA node) node attenuate reflex tachycardia, this drug favorably affects cardiac pacing. The effect of efonidipine on heart rate deserves special recognition with regard to reflex tachycardia, due to its unique effects in relation to other drugs in its class 5. This drug inhibits the L-type and T-type calcium channels, thereby leading to vasodilation and decreased automaticity of the heart. Efonidipine exerts negative chronotropic effects, decreasing heart rate. Acting on SA node cells by inhibiting T-type calcium channel activity, Efonidipine prolongs the late phase-4 depolarization of the sinoatrial node action potential, decreasing heart rate. This is associated with decreased myocardial oxygen demand and increases of blood flow to the coronary arteries and thereby attenuates myocardial ischemia. Efonidipine increases glomerular filtration rate (GFR) without increasing intra-glomerular pressure and filtration fraction 1,3,4 . This increase leads to the prevention of renal damage that is normally associated with hypertension. Efonidipine increases the rate of renal sodium excretion via the suppression of aldosterone synthesis and aldosterone secretion from the adrenal glands. Aldosterone-induced renal parenchymal fibrosis is said to be suppressed by efonidipine 4. L-type calcium channel blockers, such as efonidipine, preferentially dilate afferent arterioles in the kidney, whereas both L-/T-type and L-/N-type calcium channel blockers potently dilate both afferent and efferent arterioles. The distinct actions of calcium channel blockers on the renal microcirculation are demonstrated by changes in glomerular capillary pressure and subsequent renal injury: L-type calcium channel blockers favor an increase in glomerular capillary pressure, whereas L-/T-type and L-/N-type CCBs alleviate glomerular hypertension. This supports the theory that L-Type/T-type calcium channel blockers may be of benefit in renal hypertension 4. Efonidipine is a long-acting medication due to a low dissociation constant 11.  Recent studies suggest that efonidipine reduces plasma aldosterone levels in patients on regular hemodialysis, which is of additional benefit to the cardiovascular protection by antihypertensive therapy with efonidipine in patients with end-stage renal disease 5.  The metabolism of efonidipine was studied in rats. The absorption ratio of radioactivity estimated from the sum of biliary and urinary excretions was found to be approximately 62% 14. The radioactivity was high in the gastrointestinal tract and liver, followed by the adrenal glands 14, suggesting high rates of metabolism in these regions.  The unchanged drug in the plasma accounted for 47.7% of radioactivity at 2hr after ingestion, demonstrating a lower first-pass effect in comparison with other drugs in the same class. In plasma, major metabolites of NZ-105 were: N-debenzylated compound (DBZ), N-dephenylated compound (DPH), oxidative deaminated compound (AL), AL-corresponding pyridine compound (ALP), unknown metabolite M-1 and M-25. NZ-105 was metabolized by N-debenzylation, N-dephenylation, oxidative deamination, ester hydrolysis and oxidation of 1, 4-dihydropyridine ring to its corresponding pyridine 14. It has been suggested that efonidipine is less likely to be subject to the first-pass than other members of its drug class, and and that its dihydropyridine ring is oxidized primarily after metabolism of the side chain 8. Efonidipine is highly lipophilic and this allows for its entry into the phospholipid-rich cell membrane and reach the dihydropyridine binding site of the calcium channel targets 10. Efonidipine is mainly metabolized in the liver. Its metabolites are N-dephenylated Efonidipine (DPH), deaminated efonidipine (AL) and N-debenzylated Efonidipine (DBZ). Both metabolites behave as calcium antagonists. In one study, the vasodilating capabilities of DBZ and DPH were about two-thirds and one-third respectively than that of the unmetabolized drug. Research suggests that the majority of the pharmacological effect after oral dosing of efonidipine hydrochloride is due to unchanged drug and its metabolites play little role in its therapeutic effect. In a study of six healthy volunteers, no significant amount of unchanged drug was excreted in urine. The urine samples collected for 24 h after oral efonidipine administration, 1.1% of the dose was excreted as deaminated-efonidipine, and 0.5% as a pyridine analogue of deaminated-efonidipine 14. Efonidipine is also referred to as NZ-105 13 and has been found to be mainly eliminated by the biliary system 14. The peak plasma concentration is attained at approximately 1.5 to 3.67 hours after ingestion. The half-life is measured to be about 4 hours 12. Ld50: >5 g/kg in rats, orally 6,15.
Lacidipine | DrugBank Online Lacidipine is a lipophilic dihydropyridine calcium antagonist with an intrinsically slow onset of activity. Due to its long duration of action, lacidipine does not lead to reflex tachycardia 1. It displays specificity in the vascular smooth muscle, where it acts as an antihypertensive agent to dilate peripheral arterioles and reduce blood pressure. Compared to other dihydropyridine calcium antagonists, lacidipine exhibits a greater antioxidant activity which may confer potentially beneficial antiatherosclerotic effects 4. Lacidipine is a highly lipophilic molecule that interacts with the biological membranes. Through radiotracer analysis, it was determined that lacidipine displays a high membrane partition coefficient leading to accumulation of the drug in the membrane and slow rate of membrane washout 3. When visualized by small-angle X-ray diffraction with angstrom resolution to examine its location within the membranes, lacidipine was found deep within the membrane's hydrocarbon core 3. These results may explain the long clinical half-life of lacidipine 3.  In randomised, well-controlled trials, administration of daily single-dose lacidipine ranging from 2-6 mg demonstrated comparable antihypertensive efficacy similar to that of other long-acting dihydropyridine calcium antagonists, thiazide diuretics, atenolol (a beta-blocker) and enalapril (an ACE inhibitor) 1. It is available as once-daily oral tablets containing 2 or 4 mg of the active compound commonly marketed as Lacipil or Motens. It is not currently FDA-approved. Indicated for the treatment of hypertension either alone or in combination with other antihypertensive agents, including β-adrenoceptor antagonists, diuretics, and ACE-inhibitors 6. acidipine is a specific and potent calcium antagonist with a predominant selectivity for calcium channels in the vascular smooth muscle. Its main action is to dilate predominantly peripheral and coronary arteries, reducing peripheral vascular resistance and lowering blood pressure 6.  Following the oral administration of 4 mg lacidipine to volunteer subjects, a minimal prolongation of QTc interval has been observed (mean QTcF increase between 3.44 and 9.60 ms in young and elderly volunteers) 6. By blocking the voltage-dependent L-type calcium channels, it prevents the transmembrane calcium influx 2. Normally, calcium ions serve as intracellular messengers or activators in exictable cells including vascular smooth muscles. The influx of calcium ultimately causes the excitation and depolarization of the tissues. Lacidipine inhibits the contractile function in the vascular smooth muscle and reduce blood pressure. Due to its high membrane partition coefficient, some studies suggest that lacidipine may reach the receptor via a two-step process; it first binds and accumulates in the membrane lipid bilayer and then diffuses within the membrane to the calcium channel receptor 5. It is proposed that lacidipine preferentially blocks the inactivated state of the calcium channel 5. Through its antioxidant properties shared amongst other dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, lacidipine demonstrates an additional clinical benefit. Its antiatherosclerotic effects are mediated by suppressing the formation of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and subsequent inflammatory actions by chemokines, cytokines and adhesion molecules, thus reducing atherosclerotic lesion formation 4. Lacidipine may also suppress cell proliferation and migration in smooth muscle cells and suppress the expression of matrix metalloproteinases, which affects the stability of atheromatous plaques 4.  Since it is a highly lipophilic compound, lacidpine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract following oral administration with the peak plasma concentrations reached between 30 and 150 minutes of dosing 6. The peak plasma concentrations display large interindividual variability, with the values ranging from 1.6 to 5.7 μg/L following single-dose oral administration of lacidipine 4mg in healthy young volunteers 2. Absolute bioavailability is less than 10% due to extensive first-pass metabolism in the liver 6. Lacidipine is highly protein-bound (more than 95%) to predominantly albumin and to a lesser extent, alpha-1-glycoprotein 6.  Lacidipine undergoes complete CYP3A4-mediated hepatic metabolism, with no parent drug detected in the urine or faeces. The 2 main metabolites have no pharmacological activity 2. Approximately 70% of the administered dose is eliminated as metabolites in the faeces and the remainder as metabolites in the urine 6.  The average terminal half-life of lacidipine ranges from between 13 and 19 hours at steady state 6. There have been no recorded cases of lacidipine tablets overdosage. Some of the symptoms of overdose include prolonged peripheral vasodilation associated with hypotension and
Methylene blue | DrugBank Online Methylene blue is an oxidation-reduction agent. The intravenous form of methylene blue is approved by the FDA for the treatment of pediatric and adult patients with acquired methemoglobinemia. Historically, it has been widely used in Africa to treat malaria, but now it disappeared when chloroquine (CQ) and other drugs entered the market. Its use as an urinary tract antiseptic has also been investigated.  Methylthioninium chloride (INN, or methylene blue, proposed trade name Rember) is an investigational drug being developed by the University of Aberdeen and TauRx Therapeutics that has been shown in early clinical trials to be an inhibitor of Tau protein aggregation. The drug is of potential interest for the treatment of patients with Alzheimer's disease. Indicated for the treatment of pediatric and adult patients with acquired methemoglobinemia.  Other clinical applications of methylene blue include improvement of hypotension associated with various clinical states, an antiseptic in urinary tract infections, treatment of hypoxia and hyperdynamic circulation in cirrhosis of liver and severe hepatopulmonary syndrome, and treatment of ifofosamide induced neurotoxicity. 10 mg/kg (in rats).  Methylene blue was reported to bind strongly to rabbit plasma (71–77% of bound drug).  Following distribution into tissues, rapidly reduced to leukomethylene blue (leucomethylthioninium chloride).
Pirlindole | DrugBank Online This drug is classified as a reversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase A enzyme (also known as a RIMA drug). It was developed and is currently used as an antidepressant in Russia. Its chemical structure is similar to metralindole, and it also shares pharmacological properties with this drug. Pirlindole is a selective, reversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase (MAO) subtype A (MAO-A) that is approved in several European and non-European countries for the treatment of major depression. The antidepressant efficacy and safety of pirlindole have been demonstrated in numerous studies and, supported by many years of clinical experience in the treatment of depression. Pirlindole's efficacy and safety have also been shown in the treatment of fibromyalgia. For the treatment of major depression. It is being studied in the treatment of fibromyalgia pain syndrome. One study determined that the effect of pirlindole on sensorimotor performance while driving a motor vehicle shows many similarities to that of placebo. The drug appears to stimulate the central nervous system, rather than exhibit a sedative effect, like many antidepressants. Because of its selective, reversible inhibition of monoamine oxidase (MAO-A) and short half-life, unpleasant "cheese effects" are avoided. This refers to the effects of consuming tyramine-rich foods, such as cheese while medicated with monoamine oxidase inhibitors, leading to severe headaches and hypertension 6. of The available evidence supports pirlindole as a safe and effective treatment option for the management of depression and fibromyalgia syndrome 5. Pirlindole regulates that metabolism of norepinephrine and catecholamines, leading to relief of depressive symptoms. The prevention of breakdown of these neuromodulators is thought to elevate mood. This drug is a selective and reversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase A (also known as MAO-A). Its main mechanism of action is selective and reversible inhibition of monoamine oxidase A. Its secondary mechanism of action is the inhibition effect of noradrenaline and 5-hydroxytryptamine reuptake 2. Well absorbed with a bioavailability of 90% 3. 97% binding to plasma proteins  The drug is metabolized significantly through the hepatic system. From studies in dogs and rats, pirlindole has a bioavailability of between 20 and 30% due to the hepatic first-pass effect on this medication 2.
The rat eliminates mainly unconjugated drug while the dog eliminates mostly conjugated drug 2.  Mainly renal, with 0.4-0.5% being excreted in the urine as unchanged drug in healthy males 3.
Toloxatone | DrugBank Online Toloxatone is an antidepressant agent, the first ever use of which was in France, 1984. It acts as a selective and reversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase-A (MOA) 5. For the treatment of major depressive disorder.  This drug has been shown to help manage the symptoms of depression by maintaining neuro-synaptic levels of serotonin and catecholamines while regulating their metabolism, which leads to relief of depressive symptoms 1. This medication is a reversible inhibitor of monoamine oxidase type-A (also known as RIMA).
MAO-A can be found in norepinephrinergic and serotonergic neurons and regulates the metabolism of serotonin and catecholamines, allowing for increased circulation in the synaptic cleft.
Traditional monoamine oxidase inhibitors irreversibly inhibit monoamine oxidase and therefore, side effects, drug interactions, and food interactions persist as long as 2-3 weeks after discontinuing toloxatone. The elevation of serotonin and norepinephrine levels occurs rapidly after medication administration. However, the therapeutic relief of depressive symptoms requires weeks of daily treatment to observe results. Selective and reversible MAO-A inhibitors are more effective in treating major depression without several of the drug and food interactions associated with traditional monoamine oxidase inhibitors 6. Mainly hepatic
1% of drug is excreted unchanged in the urine 3 1-3 h 3 High hepatic excretion rate 3 In rare cases, toloxatone toxicity may cause fulminant hepatitis 6.
More common adverse effects include dysuria, nausea, constipation, vertigo, and insomnia.
Bemiparin | DrugBank Online Bemiparin is an antithrombotic and belongs to the group of drugs known as the low molecular weight heparins (LMWH). Like semuloparin, bemiparin is classified as an ultra-LMH because of its low mean molecular mass of 3600 daltons, which is a unique property of this class 1. These heparins have lower anti-thrombin activity than the traditional low molecular weight heparins and act mainly on factor-Xa, reducing the risk of bleeding due to selectivity for this specific clotting factor. Interestingly, current research is underway for the potential benefit of bemiparin in the treatment of tumors and diabetic foot ulcers 12,1. Bemiparin is indicated in the following cases: To prevent blood clots in the veins after general abdominal surgery in patients with a moderate risk of venous thromboembolism; in the prevention of the thromboembolic disease in non-surgical patients; prevention of clotting in the extracorporeal circuit during hemodialysis; to prevent blood clots in the veins after a major orthopedic surgery in patients with high risk of venous thromboembolism; secondary prevention of venous thromboembolism; recurrence in patients with deep vein thrombosis; transient prevention and treatment of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) 8. Bemiparin is an anticoagulant classified under the broad category of low molecular weight heparins.
In humans, bemiparin has been proven to possess antithrombotic activity and, at therapeutic doses, does not significantly prolong global clotting laboratory tests 9. This drug is a second-generation low molecular weight heparin (LMWH). It has a very low mean molecular weight (3600 Dalton), a long half-life (5.3 hrs) and a large anti-Xa: anti-IIa ratio (8:1)8. The mechanism of action of bemiparin is inhibition of factor Xa, which is a necessary step in the clotting cascade. Factor-Xa is necessary for the propagation of a thrombus.
Combined with various co-factors that bind to activated platelets, Factor-Xa increases coagulation by converting prothrombin to thrombin 11. Activated Factor-X, bound as part of the prothrombinase complex on the external surface of activated platelets, converts significant amounts of prothrombin to thrombin, promoting the so-called ‘thrombin burst’, referring to a burst of thrombin release 11.  A secondary but less potent mechanism of action of this drug is binding to antithrombin III and activated factor II (Factor IIa), which further prevents the propagation of thrombi 14.  Due to its excellent pharmacological profile-the second-generation LMWH with the lowest molecular weight, the longest half-life and the highest anti-Factor Xa/anti-Factor IIa activity ratio-it can be safely used in special categories of patients (children, elderly, patients with renal impairment and congestive heart failure). Several studies demonstrated its safety and efficacy, while cost analyses show the economic benefits of bemiparin treatment as compared to other heparins 1,2.  Hemiparin sodium is rapidly absorbed following its subcutaneous dose of injection, and the bioavailability is estimated to be 96% 7. 5.1 L 4. There are currently no data available with regards to plasma protein binding, metabolism and excretion of bemiparin in humans 9. In a study of healthy volunteers, bemiparin 3500 IU achieved more anti-Xa activity than enoxaparin 4000 IU, measured by the area under the curve. The peak of anti-Xa activity was reached at 3h post-administration, and there were anti-Xa measurable levels up to 16 h after subcutaneous injection 6. This drug is eliminated by the renal and hepatic routes. Elimination is prolonged in those with renal or hepatic impairment 10. Bemiparin, when administered in the dose range of 2,500 IU to 12,500 (therapeutic dosing), it has an approximate half-life of 5-6 hours 7. Elimination occurs in a linear fashion, with a mean clearance time of over 7 h and total clearance of 0.9 L/h 4. Bemiparin, like other drugs in its class, may suppress adrenal secretion of aldosterone, leading to elevated potassium (hyperkalemia). This may occur more frequently in patients with conditions such as diabetes mellitus, chronic renal failure, metabolic acidosis, an increased plasma potassium, and those ingesting potassium sparing drugs. There is a linear relationship between duration of therapy and adverse effects, but this is usually reversible with cessation of treatment. Serum electrolytes should be measured in at-risk patients before starting bemiparin, and these patients should be monitored regularly thereafter particularly if treatment is prolonged beyond 1 week. In rare cases, mild transient thrombocytopenia (HIT type I) at the beginning of therapy with heparin with platelet counts between 100,000/mm3 and 150,000/mm3 due to temporary platelet activation has been noted in clinical studies. On rare occasions, antibody-mediated severe thrombocytopenia (HIT type II) with platelet counts clearly below
Idarucizumab | DrugBank Online Idarucizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody fragment (Fab) derived from an immunoglobulin G1 isotype molecule that binds to and inactivates the oral anticoagulant dabigatran, thereby reversing its anticoagulant effect. As a direct acting oral anticoagulant (DOAC), one of the risks associated with the use of dabigatran includes bleeding, espeically when given to patients at increased risk (elderly, chronic kidney disease, concomitant NSAID or warfarin use, etc).  Approved under the tradename Praxbind (FDA), idarucizumab is indicated for the emergency treatment of dabigatran-associated bleeding in life-threatening or surgically induced situations. Its use is associated with immediate, complete and sustained reversal of the anticoagulant effects of dabigatran. Idarucizumab protein structure can be viewed below, with disulfide bridges at the following points: H22-H95, H149-H205, H225-L-219, L23-L93, L139-L199. For use in patients treated with Dabigatran when reversal of the anticoagulant effects of dabigatran is needed for emergency surgery/urgent procedures and in life-threatening or uncontrolled bleeding. Idarucizumab is a specific reversal agent for dabigatran. It is a humanized monoclonal antibody fragment (Fab) that binds to dabigatran and its acylglucuronide metabolites with higher affinity than the binding affinity of dabigatran to thrombin, neutralizing their anticoagulant effect. 8.9 L Several pathways have been described that may contribute to the metabolism of antibodies. All of these pathways involve biodegradation of the antibody to smaller
molecules, i.e., small peptides or amino acids which are then reabsorbed and incorporated in the general protein synthesis.  After intravenous administration of 5 g idarucizumab, 32.1% (gCV 60.0%) of the dose was recovered in urine within a collection period of 6 hours and less than 1% in the following 18 hours. The remaining part of the dose is assumed to be eliminated via protein catabolism, mainly in the kidney.  initial half-life: 47 minutes
Picosulfuric acid | DrugBank Online Picosulfuric acid is found in laxative products. Sodium picosulfate is a used to treat constipation or induce colon cleansing to prepare the large bowels before colonoscopy or surgery. The combination product containing sodium picosulfate and magnesium citrate was introduced to the Canadian market in 2005 and has been used in European countries for many years 4. Indicated for cleansing of the colon as a preparation for colonoscopy in adults Label. Sodium picosulfate is a stimulant laxative that in conjunction with magnesium citrate, produces a purgative effect on stools. In a multicentre, observational study comprising of patients undergoing colonoscopy, more than 93.0% of the patients receiving sodium picosulfate-containing preparations reported the colon cleansing effect to be effective 4.  Picosulfuric acid, as sodium picosulfate, is a contact laxative. Sodium picosulfate inhibits the absorption of water and
Bismuth subcitrate potassium | DrugBank Online A bismuth compound used for peptic ulcer and gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD). For the treatment of peptic ulcer and gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD).
Activated charcoal | DrugBank Online Activated charcoal, or activated carbon, is an amorphous form of carbon prepared from incomplete combustion of carbonaceous organic matter. It is activated by an oxidizing gas flow at high temperature passed over its surface to make a fine network of pores, producing a material with large surface area and high affinity for various substances. It is used as a gastric decontaminant and emergency medication to treat poisonings following excessive oral ingestion of certain medications or poisons by absorbing most drugs and toxins. However its effects is rendered poor on some compounds including strong acids or bases, methanol and substances with limited absorptive capacity (including iron, lithium, arsenic). It works by binding to the poison in the gastric contents in a reversible fashion thus may be adminstered together with a cathartic to reduce the small intestine transit time. The clinical applications of activated charcoal occured in the early 1800's. While this management for acute poisoning is considered fairly invasive, it is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines that includes the most important medications needed in a basic health system. Used as a antidote to treat poisonings following excessive oral ingestion of certain medications or poisons.  Activated charcoal is used as a gastric decontamination agent in emergency clinical settings in case of poison or medication overdose. Studies show that early administration of one dose of activated charcoal can adsorb poison in the stomach and reduce absorption while it also works long after ingestion, by interruption of enterohepatic and enterovascular cycling of poison.  Active charcoal acts by binding to the pharmaceutical drugs or poisons such as organophosphates and decreasing the systemic absorption of toxic agents. Molecules with large volume of distribution, thus likely having higher lipid solubility, tends to bind have better absorptive binding to activated charcoal. Following the administration of activated charcoal, cathartics are indicated to evacuate the charcoal-poison bonded complex from the gastrointestinal tract.
Magnesium trisilicate | DrugBank Online Magnesium trisilicate is an inorganic compound that is used as an antacid in the treatment of peptic ulcers. For the treatment of peptic ulcers.
Molsidomine | DrugBank Online Molsidomine is an orally active, long-acting vasodilator, which belongs to the class of medications known as syndnones. Interestingly, it is being studied as being a preventive measure in cerebral infarction 1. The indications for use of molsidomine include ischemic heart disease, angina, chronic heart failure, and pulmonary hypertension 9,10. Molsidomine leads to smooth muscle relaxation in the coronary blood vessels, relieving symptoms of angina and increasing blood flow to the coronary arteries.  Molsidomine, a cardiovascular drug, acts in a similar fashion to organic nitrates. The SIN-1A metabolite of molsidomine has a pharmacologically active group of nitric oxide, which increases levels of cyclic GMP, and decreases intracellular calcium ions in smooth muscle cells. This leads to relaxation of smooth muscle in the blood vessels, and inhibits platelet aggregation. Peak plasma drug concentration (tmax) occurs from 1 to 2 hours after administration. 98 L 8 Molsidomine hepatically metabolized to linsidomine. Linsidomine releases nitric oxide (NO) from endothelial cells when it decays, and acts as the active vasodilating metabolite responsible for molsidomine's pharmacological effects. Oral absorption of Molsidomine is found to be 95.5% ±4.5. Presystemic metabolism is noted to be 56% and metabolism is reported extensive by Liver. Renal Excretion accounts for 95 % and plasma half-life is 5 hr.
Back to top Hover over products below to view reaction partners renal excretion is the main route of elimination of the metabolites in humans (90% to 95%)
Pipamperone | DrugBank Online Pipamperone is a typical antipsychotic of the butyrophenone family used in the treatment of schizophrenia. It was developed by Janssen Pharmaceutica in 1961 and started its first round of clinical trials in 1963 11,15. In an effort to improve haloperidol's pharmacological effects, Janssen discovered that pipamperone, an agent whose pharmacological profile was distinct from haloperidol and all other known antipsychotic drugs at this time, had significant anti-tryptamine activity. Some studies suggest pipamperone was the first atypical antipsychotic. Interestingly, when risperidone was created, Janssen suggested it was a more potent version of pipamperone. Synthesized in the year 1984, risperidone’s pharmacological properties were similar to pipamperone’s in that both block more serotonin more potently than dopamine 15. Treatment of chronic psychoses and states of aggressiveness of various origins 12. Pipamperone is an antipsychotic medication that has sedative effects, which may be beneficial in the management of agitation and disordered sleep 8. Pipamperone, showing antidopaminergic and anti-serotonergic properties, has been noted for its anti-
agitation effects and for its ability to normalize sleep rhythms in psychiatric patients 5. One study showed that pipamperone increased the expression of D4 (dopaminergic) receptors, explaining its helpfulness in decreasing positive psychotic symptoms, such as delusions and hallucinations 19. Pipamperone binds mainly to 5-HT2A receptors, with a nearly equal affinity to D4 receptors and a moderate affinity for 5-HT2C, D2, D3, 1- and 2B-adrenoceptors 5. This drug is a selective 5-HT2A, D1 and D4 antagonist 13. Extrapyramidal adverse effects also appear to be limited in pipamperone treatment compared to traditional antipsychotic medications due to its high receptor selectivity 11. Pipamperone has a 15-fold higher affinity for D4 than D2 receptors. It has been suggested that D4 receptors may play a role in the modulation of GABAergic neuronal activity by dopamine 5.  Pipamperone is metabolised in the liver 11. Mainly via the kidneys 11 17-26h 18 Ld50 in rats, 48 mg/kg 16.
Rolapitant | DrugBank Online Rolapitant is a potent, highly selective, long-acting Neurokinin-1 (NK-1) receptor antagonist approved for the prevention of delayed chemotherapy-induced nausea and vomiting (CINV) in adults. Delayed-phase CINV typically occurs >24 hours after chemotherapy treatment and is principally mediated by Neurokinin-1 and its ligand Substance P, which is released in the gut following chemotherapy administration. Neurokinin-1 is also known as Tachykinin Receptor 1 (TACR1), Neurokinin 1 Receptor (NK1R), and Substance P Receptor (SPR).
Iodide I-131 | DrugBank Online Iodide I-131 (as Sodium iodide I-131) is a radioisotopic drug used for the treatment and palliation of thyroid malignancy. Iodine-131 is notable for causing mutation and death in cells that it penetrates, which is due to its mode of beta decay. As a result of beta decay, approximately 10% of its energy and radiation dose is via gamma radiation, while the other 90% (beta radiation) causes tissue damage without contributing to any ability to see or image the isotope. Low levels of beta radiation are also known for causing cancer as this dose is highly mutagenic. For this reason, less toxic iodine isotopes such as I-123 are more frequently used in nuclear imaging, while I-131 is reserved for its tissue destroying effects. Because the thyroid gland naturally takes up iodine from the body, therapeutic methods using radioisotopes can take advantage of this mechanism for localization of drug to the site of malignancy.  Therapeutic solutions of Sodium Iodide-131 are indicated for the treatment of hyperthyroidism and thyroid carcinomas that take up iodine. Palliative effects may be observed in patients with advanced thyroid malignancy if the metastatic lesions take up iodine. It is also indicated for use in performance of the radioactive iodide (RAI) uptake test to evaluate thyroid function. Therapeutic solutions of Sodium Iodide-131 are indicated for the treatment of hyperthyroidism and thyroid carcinomas that take up iodine. Palliative effects may be observed in patients with advanced thyroid malignancy if the metastatic lesions take up iodine. It is also indicated for use in performance of the radioactive iodide (RAI) uptake test to evaluate thyroid function. The therapeutic effects of sodium iodide I-131 are a result of the ionizing radiation absorbed by the thyroidal tissue. Tissue damage is the result of direct insult to molecules by ionization and excitation and the consequent dissociation of those molecules. About 90% of local irradiation from sodium iodide I-131 is the result of beta radiation and 10% is the result of gamma radiation.  Taken orally, sodium iodide I-131 is rapidly absorbed and distributed within the extracellular fluid of the body. The iodide is concentrated in the thyroid via the sodium/iodide symporter, and subsequently oxidized to iodine. The destruction of thyroidal tissue is achieved by the beta emission of sodium iodide I-131.  After oral administration, sodium iodide I-131 is absorbed rapidly from the upper gastrointestinal tract (90% in 60 minutes). Following absorption, the iodide is primarily distributed within the extra-cellular fluid of the body. It is trapped by the thyroid. The thyroid uptake of iodide is usually increased in hyperthyroidism and in goiter with impaired hormone synthesis, decreased in hypothyroidism, and normal to decreased in hypothyroidism receiving iodine. It should be noted that the uptake of radioactive iodide is a function of stable iodide concentration in the serum and the functional state of the thyroid. Sodium Iodide I-131 is not protein bound. Trapped iodide is oxidized to iodine and organically incorporated so rapidly that the iodide trap of the thyroid contains less than 0.2 % free iodide in comparison to the organically bound iodine. This process results in further concentration of iodine in the thyroid gland to about 500 times that in the blood.  Sodium Iodide I-131 is excreted by the kidneys. The normal range of urinary excretion is 37 to 75 % of the administered dose, varying with the thyroid and renal function of the patient. Iodine I-131 decays by beta emission and associated gamma emission with a physical half-life of 8.04 days. Adverse reactions that have been reported with doses of sodium iodide I-131 used in the treatment of benign disease include sialadenitis, chest pain, tachycardia, iododerma, itching skin, rash, hives, hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, thyrotoxic crisis, hypoparathyroidism, and local swelling.
Polycarbophil | DrugBank Online Polycarbophil calcium is a synthetic polymer manufactured from the cross-linking of polyacrylic acid with divinyl glycol and a calcium counter-ion.
Polycarbophil calcium is a stool stabilizer used to treat constipation. This drug may also be used to help relieve the symptoms of irritable bowel syndrome or diarrhea.
Ioxaglic acid | DrugBank Online Ioxaglic acid is marketed as Hexabrix. This drug is an ionic tri-iodinated benzoate used as a low-osmolality contrast agent during diagnostic imaging procedures. Like other organic iodine compounds, ioxaglic acid blocks x-rays and is opaque in its appearance on x-ray film, improving the visualization of important structures and organs during angiography, arteriography, arthrography, cholangiography, urography, and computed tomography 7. Ioxaglic acid has a low osmolarity and is associated with fewer side effects compared to older contrast agents 2. This medicinal product is for diagnostic use only in adults and children as a low-osmolality medium 2, 1.  This drug allows for the visualization of important organs and structures in the body. It binds to tissues, allowing the blockage of X-rays and diagnostic visualization in various soft tissues and body cavities 8.  The joint spaces in addition to the uterus and fallopian tubes may be visualized by the direct injection of the contrast medium into the region to be studied 4. Ioxaglic acid is an iodine-containing, low osmolality contrast agent 2,3,1. Ioxaglate is a molecule that consists of six iodine atoms and achieves water solubility by ionization; thus, it is a 3.0 ratio ionic agent 6.  By far the most successful and widely used contrast agents in use today are the iodinated contrast media, which were introduced into clinical practice in the 1950s. Approximately 75 million doses of iodinated contrast agents are administered worldwide each year. The iodinated contrast agents fall into 4 groups. Each group has unique chemical, physical, and biologic properties. These various contrast agents are required to meet the demands of a broad variety of imaging modalities 7.  All agents share a similar function group—a tri-iodinated benzene ring. Iodine plays an imperative role in the attenuation of x-ray signal. The atomic radius of a covalently bonded iodine atom is about 133 picometers, falling within the same range of the wavelengths of x-rays: 10 to 10,000 picometers. Therefore, x-rays are easily attenuated by the iodine atoms. In addition, iodine atoms covalently bonded to a benzene ring have 2 main advantages: (1) 3 large atoms located in such close proximity increase the effective molecular size, attenuating longer-wavelength x-rays, and (2) covalent bonding to a stable organic functional group (for example, benzene) decrease the risk of toxic adverse effects from free iodide molecules 7.  Ionization is an important characteristic to note in contrast media preparations 8. Compounds are classified as either ionic or nonionic. The ionic compounds dissociate in aqueous solution and therefore have a higher osmolality. The anion is the radiopaque portion of the molecule, however, both the anion and cation are osmotically active 8. Compared with nonionic media such as ioxaglic acid, ionic contrast media have more adverse hemodynamic effects, especially in patients with heart disease. The nonionic media are water soluble but do not dissociate in solution. Nonionic agents possess lower osmolality because there are fewer particles in solution. The nonionic contrast agents are more hydrophilic than ionic agents, resulting in lower osmolality, reduced binding to plasma proteins, decreased tissue binding, and a decreased tendency to cross cell membranes 8. The low-osmolality of ioxaglic acid reduces the risk of adverse events. The occurrence of adverse reactions is more common after the use of high-osmolarity agents: about 15% with a high-osmolarity agent versus 3% with a low-osmolarity agent 7.  The use of high-osmolarity agents has decreased significantly in recent years. Most adverse effects and adverse reactions to this group of drugs are multifactorial and are likely due to a combination of direct cellular toxicity, the ionic state (for example, ionic vs nonionic), or the osmolarity of the injected contrast drug 7. Following the intravascular route of injection, Ioxaglic acid is rapidly transported through the circulatory system to the kidneys. The pharmacokinetics of radiopaque contrast media given by the IV route are described by a two-compartment model with a rapid alpha phase for drug distribution and a slow beta phase for the elimination of the drug2. Following the intravenous administration of 50 mL of ioxaglic acid in 10 healthy volunteers, the mean peak plasma concentration occurred at two (1-3) minutes, reaching a concentration of 2.1 (1.8-2.8) mg/mL.  Approximately 50 percent of the intravenously administered dose was recovered in the urine at two hours, and 90% percent was recovered at the 24 hour time point 2. Ioxaglate salts cross the placental barrier in humans and are excreted unchanged in human milk 4. Ioxaglic acid binds very weakly to plasma proteins 5 and is quickly eliminated unchanged by the kidneys (glomerular filtration with no re-absorption or tubular secretion). Excreted unchanged 5. Excreted unchanged in the urine 2
The liver and small intestine provide the major alternate route of excretion. In patients with severe renal impairment, the excretion of this contrast medium through the gallbladder and into the small intestine sharply increases 4. Hexabrix 320 is rapidly eliminated by the kidneys with a half-life of about 90 minutes 3 245 ml/kg 5 Adverse reactions after administration of iodinated contrast agents may be worsened in patients displaying agitation, anxiety, and pain. Appropriate management, such as sedation, may be required before the procedure 2. Adequate hydration and normal electrolyte balance must be ensured, especially in elderly patients, infants, small children, patients with renal damage (oliguria, polyuria) or hyperuricemia, multiple myeloma, patients diagnosed with plasmacytoma or diabetes mellitus, particularly if it is longstanding 2. As this drug is a contrast agent, it may cause minor or major reactions that may be serious or lethal 2. They may be rapid (within 60 minutes) or delayed (up to 1 week) 2. Emergency measures must be immediately available in high risk individuals, especially in patients taking B-blockers in whom adrenaline and vascular perfusion would not be effective 2. There are several conditions in which caution must be observed while administering this contrast drug 2: Renal Disease/Hepatic Disease Particular attention is required if the patient has both hepatic and renal failure, which increases the risk of contrast agent retention 2. Cardiovascular Disease
Thallous Chloride | DrugBank Online Thallous chloride (also known as Thallium(I) chloride) is a colourless solid intermediate in the isolation of thallium from its ores. It is created from the treatment of thallium(I) sulfate with hydrochloric acid. This solid crystallizes in the caesium chloride motif. It is used as a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical. It is used for diagnosis of heart and parathyroid problems. The following are among the possible side effects: Blurred vision, chest pain or discomfort, chills, confusion, cough, difficulty with breathing, difficulty with swallowing, and dizziness. For use as a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical.
It is indicated to help diagnose heart disease (eg, coronary artery disease, heart attack). It is also used for the diagnosis of parathyroid problems.  Data not found. Thallous Chloride TI201 without carrier, accumulates in the heart (myocardium) in a similar way to that of potassium. Thallous Chloride Tl 201 images have been found to visualize areas of infarction as “cold” or nonlabeled regions which are confirmed by electrocardiographic and enzyme changes. Regions of transient myocardial ischemia corresponding to areas perfused by coronary arteries with partial stenoses have been visualized when Thallous Chloride Tl 201 was administered in conjunction with an exercise stress test. Anatomic configurations may interfere with visualization of the right coronary artery. After IV administration, thallous chloride clears rapidly from the blood, with maximum concentration in the myocardium after about 10 min.
Only 5-8% of injected activity remained in the blood, following 5 minutes of intravenous administration. 3–10 L/kg Data not found. Data not found Thallous Chloride Tl 201 is excreted slowly and to an equal extent in both feces and urine. 91% of the blood radioactivity has a t1/2 of 5 min.
9% has t1/2 of 40 hours. Approximately 4-8% of the injected dose was excreted in the urine in the first 24 hours. The whole body disappearance half-time was 9.8 ± 2.5 days. Kidney concentration was found to be about 3 percent of the injected activity and the testicular content was 0.15 percent. Net thyroid activity was determined to be only 0.2 percent of the injected dose, and the activity disappeared in 24 hours. From anterior and posterior whole-body scans, it was determined that about 45 percent of the injected dose was in the large intestines and contiguous structures (liver, kidneys, abdominal musculature). LD50 (mouse): 24 mg/kg.
Minimum lethal dose (Human): 8 mg/kg.
Zinc oxide | DrugBank Online Zinc oxide is an inorganic compound used in a number of manufacturing processes. It can be found in rubbers, plastics, ceramics, glass, cement, lubricants, paints, ointments, adhesives, sealants, pigments, foods, batteries, ferrites, fire retardants, and first-aid tapes. It occurs naturally as the mineral zincite, but most zinc oxide is produced synthetically. It is also widely used to treat a variety of other skin conditions, in products such as baby powder and barrier creams to treat diaper rashes, calamine cream, anti-dandruff shampoos, and antiseptic ointments. For adjunctive treatment of diaper dermatitis. Also, it can be used to treat minor skin irritations (eg, cuts, burns, and scrapes, poison ivy).
Zinc sulfate | DrugBank Online Zinc sulfate is the inorganic compound with the formula ZnSO4 and historically known as "white vitriol". It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, a list of the most important medication needed in a basic health system. This medication is a mineral used to treat or prevent low levels of zinc alone and together with oral rehydration therapy (ORT). It is also used as a topical astringent. Zinc Sulfate Injection, USP is indicated for use as a supplement to intravenous solutions given for TPN.  Zinc has been identified as a cofactor for over 70 different enzymes, including alkaline phosphatase, lactic dehydrogenase and both RNA and DNA polymerase. Zinc facilitates wound healing, helps maintain normal growth rates, normal skin hydration and the senses of taste and smell. Zinc inhibits cAMP-induced, chloride-dependent fluid secretion by inhibiting basolateral potassium (K) channels, in in-vitro studies with rat ileum. This study has also shown the specificity of Zn to cAMP-activated K channels, because zinc did not block the calcium (Ca)-mediated K channels. As this study was not performed in Zn-deficient animals, it provides evidence that Zn is probably effective in the absence of Zn deficiency. Zinc also improves the absorption of water and electrolytes, improves regeneration of the intestinal epithelium, increases the levels of brush border enzymes, and enhances the immune response, allowing for a better clearance of the pathogens. Approximately 20 to 30% of dietary zinc is absorbed, primarily from the duodenum and ileum. The amount absorbed is dependent on the bioavailability from food. Zinc is the most bioavailable from red meat and oysters. Phytates may impair absorption by chelation and formation of insoluble complexes at an alkaline pH. After absorption, zinc is bound in the intestine to the protein metallothionein. Endogenous zinc can be reabsorbed in the ileum and colon, creating an enteropancreatic circulation of zinc.  After absorption zinc is bound to protein metallothionein in the intestines. Zinc is widely distributed throughout the body. It is primarily stored in RBCs, WBCs, muscles, bones, Skin, Kidneys, Liver, Pancreas, retina, and prostate.  Zinc is 60% bound to albumin; 30 to 40% bound to alpha-2 macroglobulin or transferrin; and 1% bound to amino acids, primarily histidine and cysteine.  Primarily fecal (approximately 90%); to a lesser extent in the urine and in perspiration. 3 hours Human : TDLo ( Oral) 45mg/kg/7D-C : Normocytic anemia, pulse rate increase without fall inBP
Human: TDLo (oral) 106mg/kg : Hypermotylity, diarrhea
Mouse ; LD50 Oral : 245mg/kg
Benzylpenicillin benzathine hydrate | DrugBank Online Benzylpenicillin (Penicillin G) is narrow spectrum antibiotic used to treat infections caused by susceptible bacteria. It is a natural penicillin antibiotic that is administered intravenously or intramuscularly due to poor oral absorption. Penicillin G may also be used in some cases as prophylaxis against susceptible organisms. Natural penicillins are considered the drugs of choice for several infections caused by susceptible gram positive aerobic organisms, such as Streptococcus pneumoniae, groups A, B, C and G streptococci, nonenterococcal group D streptococci, viridans group streptococci, and non-penicillinase producing staphylococcus. Aminoglycosides may be added for synergy against group B streptococcus (S. agalactiae), S. viridans, and Enterococcus faecalis. The natural penicillins may also be used as first or second line agents against susceptible gram positive aerobic bacilli such as Bacillus anthracis, Corynebacterium diphtheriae, and Erysipelothrix rhusiopathiae. Natural penicillins have limited activity against gram negative organisms; however, they may be used in some cases to treat infections caused by Neisseria meningitidis and Pasteurella. They are not generally used to treat anaerobic infections. Resistance patterns, susceptibility and treatment guidelines vary across regions.
Sulbactam | DrugBank Online Sulbactam is a β-lactamase inhibitor given in combination with β-lactam antibiotics to inhibit β-lactamase, an enzyme produced by bacteria that destroys antibiotic activity. Sulbactam is currently available in combination products with ampicillin. Within this formulation it is indicated for the treatment of infections due to susceptible strains of the designated microorganisms in the conditions listed below.
Skin and Skin Structure Infections caused by beta-lactamase producing strains of Staphylococcus aureus, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella spp. (including K. pneumoniae), Proteus mirabilis, Bacteroides fragilis, Enterobacter spp., and Acinetobacter calcoaceticus.
Intra-Abdominal Infections caused by beta-lactamase producing strains of Escherichia coli, Klebsiella spp. (including K. pneumoniae), Bacteroides spp. (including B. fragilis), and Enterobacter spp.
Ammonia N-13 | DrugBank Online Ammonia N 13 Injection, USP is a positron emitting radiopharmaceutical that is used for diagnostic purposes in conjunction with positron emission tomography (PET) imaging. The active ingredient, [13N] ammonia, has the molecular formula of 13NH3 with a molecular weight of 16.02.
Ammonia N 13 Injection, USP is used for imaging of the myocardium under rest or pharmacologic stress conditions to evaluate myocardial perfusion in patients with suspected or existing coronary artery disease. For diagnostic Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging of the myocardium under rest or pharmacologic stress conditions to evaluate myocardial perfusion in patients with suspected or existing coronary artery disease. Following intravenous injection, ammonia N 13 enters the myocardium through the coronary arteries. The PET technique measures myocardial blood flow based on the assumption of a three-compartmental disposition of intravenous ammonia N 13 in the myocardium. In this model, the value of the rate constant, which represents the delivery of blood to myocardium, and the fraction of ammonia N 13 extracted into the myocardial cells, is a measure of myocardial blood flow. Optimal PET imaging of the myocardium is generally achieved between 10 to 20 minutes after administration. Ammonia N 13 Injection is a radiolabeled analog of ammonia that is distributed to all organs of the body after intravenous administration. It is extracted from the blood in the coronary capillaries into the myocardial cells where it is metabolized to glutamine N 13 and retained in the cells. The presence of ammonia N 13 and glutamine N 13 in the myocardium allows for PET imaging of the myocardium. Following intravenous injection, 13N-ammonia is cleared rapidly from the blood with a biologic half-life of about 2.84 minutes (effective half-life of about 2.2
Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), PEGylated | DrugBank Online Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), PEGylated, was approved by the FDA in December 2016 as the product Adynovate Label. Antihemophilic Factor (Recombinant), PEGylated, is a recombinant full-length human coagulation factor VIII (2,332 amino acids with a molecular weight (MW) of approximately 280 kDa) covalently conjugated with at least one molecule of polyethylene glycol (MW 20 kDa) Label. It has been created to increase the half-life of factor VIII, which decreases dose frequency and decreases the occurrence of bleeding events 2, 3, Label. PEGylation is the covalent attachment of a polyethylene glycol polymer, called PEG, to a drug or protein. PEGylation decreases factor VIII clearance and allowing for an increased duration of drug circulation in the plasma 7. For the management of hemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency) Label, 1.
This medication is a human antihemophilic factor indicated in adolescent and adult patients (12 years and older) with hemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency). It is also used for on-demand treatment and control of bleeding and routine prophylaxis of bleeding episodes. It is not indicated for the treatment of von Willebrand disease Label. This drug temporarily replaces the missing coagulation factor VIII, required for effective hemostasis in patients with congenital hemophilia A Label. Hemophilia A patients have a deficiency of factor VIII, resulting in a prolonged, patient plasma clotting time as demonstrated by the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT). Treatment with recombinant factor VIII normalizes the aPTT. Hemophilia A is a sex-linked hereditary disorder of blood coagulation caused by decreased levels of Factor VIII activity, resulting in severe bleeding into the joints, muscles or internal organs, spontaneously/as a result of trauma 18, 6. PEG with Factor VIII effectively increases the molecular weight and size of the protein by creating a hydrophilic cloud around the molecule. This molecular change may reduce the susceptibility of this molecule to proteolytic degradation. It is also believed that PEGylation alters the surface charge of the protein that inhibits receptor-mediated clearance 4. This drug reduces binding to the LRP1 receptor, which normally clears factor VIII from the circulation 5, Label. The plasma levels of Factor VIII are increased with replacement therapy, which allows for a temporary correction of the factor deficiency, thus a correction of the bleeding tendency 18. AUC0-Inf [IU·h/dL]:  1642 ± 752 in children aged 12 to <18 years Label
2264 ± 729 in adults ≥18 years Label At steady state: 0.56 ± 0.18 dL/Kg in children aged 12 to <18 years Label
Kappadione | DrugBank Online Kappadione is a Vitamin K derivative (chemically, it is menadiol sodium diphosphate), previously approved by FDA prior to 1982 and marketed by Lilly Marketing for this drug has been discontinued and is not available in North America 3. It has been found to have carcinogenic potential in mammalian cells as well as cytotoxic properties 4. Studies involving the active metabolite of this formulation, menadione, showed oocyte toxicity in a study of mice 4. Anticoagulant-induced prothrombin deficiency caused by coumadin or indanedione derivatives,
prophylaxis and therapy of hemorrhagic disease of the newborn, hypoprothrombinemia due to antibacterial therapy,
Glucose | DrugBank Online Glucose is a simple sugar (monosaccharide) generated during phosynthesis involving water, carbon and sunlight in plants. It is produced in humans via hepatic gluconeogenesis and breakdown of polymeric glucose forms (glycogenolysis). It circulates in human circulation as blood glucose and acts as an essential energy source for many organisms through aerobic or anaerobic respiration and fermentation. It is primarily stored as starch in plants and glycogen in animals to be used in various metabolic processes in the cellular level. Its aldohexose stereoisomer, dextrose or D-glucose, is the most commonly occurring isomer of glucose in nature. L-glucose is a synthesized enantiomer that is used as a low-calorie sweetener and laxative. The unspecified form of glucose is commonly supplied as an injection for nutritional supplementation or metabolic disorders where glucose levels are improperly regulated. Glucose is listed on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. Glucose pharmaceutical formulations (oral tablets, injections) are indicated for caloric supply and carbohydrate supplementation in case of nutrient deprivation. It is also used in metabolic disorders such as hypoglycemia. Blood glucose is an obligatory energy source in humans involved in various cellular activities, and it also acts as a signalling molecule for diverse glucose-sensing molecules and proteins. Glucose undergoes oxidation into carbon dioxide, water and yields energy molecules in the process of glycolysis and subsequent citric cycle and oxidative phosphorylation. Glucose is readily converted into fat in the body which can be used as a source of energy as required. Under a similar conversion into storage of energy, glucose is stored in the liver and muscles as glycogen. Glucose stores are mobilized in a regulated manner, depending on the tissues' metabolic demands. Oral glucose tablets or injections serve to increase the supply of glucose and oral glucose administration is more effective in stimulating insulin secretion because it stimulates the incretin hormones from the gut, which promotes insulin secretion.  Glucose supplies most of the energy to all tissues by generating energy molecules ATP and NADH during a series of metabolism reactions called glycolysis. Glycolysis can be divided into 2 main phases where the preparatory phase is initiated by the phosphorylation of glucose by a hexokinase to form glucose 6-phosphate. The addition of the high-energy phosphate group activates glucose for subsequent breakdown in later steps of glycolysis and is the rate-limiting step. Products end up as substrates for following reactions, to ultimately convert C6 glucose molecule into two C3 sugar molecules. These products enter the energy-releasing phase where total of 4ATP and 2NADH molecules are generated per one glucose molecule. The total aerobic metabolism of glucose can produce up to 36 ATP molecules. This energy-producing reactions of glucose is limited to D-glucose as L-glucose cannot be phosphorlyated by hexokinase.
Hydroxyamphetamine | DrugBank Online Hydroxyamphetamine is a derivative of amphetamines. Hydroxyamphetamine is intended mainly as local eye drops for diagnostic purposes. It is indirect sympathomimetic agent which cause dilation of the eye pupil before diagnostic test. Among the minor side effects from its use are: change in color vision, difficulty seeing at night, dry mouth, headache, increased sensitivity of eyes to sunlight, muscle stiffness or tightness and temporary stinging in the eyes.
Sulfur | DrugBank Online Sulfur is a chemical element that is present in all living tissues. The most commonly used form of pharmaceutical sulfur is Octasulfur (S8). After calcium and phosphorus, it is the third most abundant mineral in the human body. Sulfur is also found in garlic, onions and broccoli. People take sulfur by mouth for shortness of breath, allergies, swelling in the back of the throat (pharyngitis), high cholesterol, clogged arteries, menopause, and upper respiratory tract infections like the common cold. Sulfur seems to have an antibacterial activity. It has been also used for acne. Topically it is indicated for dandruff, acne, Hayfever, common cold, scaly and red skin patches (seborrheic dermatitis).
Dexpanthenol | DrugBank Online Dexpanthenol is an alcohol derivative of pantothenic acid, a component of the B complex vitamins and an essential component of a normally functioning epithelium. Dexpanthenol is enzymatically cleaved to form pantothenic acid, which is an essential component of Coenzyme A, which acts as a cofactor in many enzymatic reactions that are important for protein metabolism in the epithelium2.  Due to its good penetration and high local concentrations, dexpanthanol is used in many topical products, such as ointments and lotions for treatment of dermatological conditions to relieve itching or promote healing. Dermatological effects of the topical use of dexpanthenol include increased fibroblast proliferation and accelerated re-epithelialization in wound healing. Furthermore, it acts as a topical protectant, moisturizer, and has demonstrated anti-inflammatory properties 3. Dexpanthenol is also available as a racemic mixture containing both the dextrorotatory form (dexpanthenol) and the levorotatory form (levopanthenol) as Panthenol. While pantothenic acid is optically active, only the dextrorotatory form (dexpanthenol) is biologically active. Injection: Prophylactic use immediately after major abdominal surgery to minimize the possibility of paralytic ileus. Intestinal atony causing abdominal distention; postoperative or postpartum retention of flatus, or postoperative delay in resumption of intestinal motility; paralytic ileus. Topical: This medication is used as a moisturizer to treat or prevent dry, rough, scaly, itchy skin and minor skin irritations (e.g., diaper rash, skin burns from radiation therapy).  Pantothenic acid is a precursor of coenzyme A, which serves as a cofactor for a variety of enzyme-catalyzed reactions involving transfer of acetyl groups. The final step in the synthesis of acetylcholine consists of the choline acetylase transfer of acetyl group from acetylcoenzyme A to choline. Acetylcholine is the neurohumoral transmitter in the parasympathetic system and as such maintains the normal functions of the intestine. Decrease in acetylcholine content would result in decreased peristalsis and in extreme cases adynamic ileus.  Dexpanthenol is an alcohol derivative of pantothenic acid, a component of the B complex vitamins and an essential component of a normally functioning epithelium. Dexpanthenol is enzymatically cleaved to form pantothenic acid, which is an essential component of Coenzyme A, which acts as a cofactor in many enzymatic reactions that are important for protein metabolism in the epithelium2.  Dermatological effects of the topical use of dexpanthenol include increased fibroblast proliferation and accelerated re-epithelialization in wound healing. Furthermore, it acts as a topical protectant, moisturizer, and has demonstrated anti-inflammatory properties 3. Dexpanthenol is soluble in water and alcohol, although insoluble in fats and oil based substances. With the appropriate vehicle, Dexpanthenol is easily penetrated into the skin. Rate of penetration and absorption is reduced when Dexpanthenol is administered as an oil/water formula. Dexpanthenol is readily converted to pantothenic acid which is widely distributed into body tissues, mainly as coenzyme A. Highest concentrations are found in the liver, adrenal glands, heart, and kidneys. Plasma protein binding have not been reported. Dexpanthenol is readily converted to pantothenic acid which is widely distributed into body tissues, mainly as coenzyme A. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Milk of nursing mothers receiving a normal diet contains about 2 ug of pantothenic acid per mL. About 70% of an oral dose of pantothenic acid is excreted unchanged in urine and about 30% in feces. Half life have not been reported Mouse LD50 : 9gm/kg (Intraperitoneal)
Mouse: LD50 7gm/kg (Intravenous)
Mouse: LD50 15gm/kg (Oral)
Rauwolfia serpentina root | DrugBank Online Rauwolfia (Rauwolfia serpentina), also spelled ravolphia, is a medicinal plant in the milkweed family. The root of the plant is ground into a powder or sold in tablets or capsules. It is a compound commonly used in Asian medicine, which includes traditional Ayurvedic medicine native to India. The active ingredients in this drug are alkaloids and about 50 have been identified through various studies, although the primary psychoactive components appear to be reserpine, rescinnamine, and deserpidine 10. This product was approved prior to Jan 1, 1982, but since, has been discontinued due to its propensity for leading to depression 8,20. Reserpine is derived from Rauwolfia serpentina, and was commonly used as an antihypertensive agent in the 1950s 12. Rauwolfia serpentina is also commonly referred to as Sarpaghanda 3. Interestingly, the hairy root component of this plant has shown a remarkable capacity to regenerate into complete Rauwolfia plants and shows survival and unaltered biosynthetic potential during storage at decreased temperatures. For this reason, various studies into biotechnological applications of this plant have been performed. Multiple studies have been done on their biosynthetic potential and numerous biotechnological methods used to study the production of pharmaceutically important alkaloids 1,2. Rauwolfia alkaloids are indicated in the treatment of hypertension 6. Rauwolfia alkaloids have been used for relief of symptoms in agitated psychotic states such as schizophrenia; however, use as antipsychotics and sedatives have been replaced with the use of more effective, safer agents 6. Reserpine is used to treat high blood pressure. It also is used to treat severe agitation in patients with mental disorders. Reserpine is in a class of medications called rauwolfia alkaloids. It works by slowing the activity of the nervous system, causing the heart rate to slow and the blood vessels to dilate 9,12. Reserpine is an adrenergic blocking agent used to treat mild to moderate hypertension via the disruption of norepinephrine vesicular storage. The antihypertensive actions of Reserpine are a result of its ability to deplete catecholamines from peripheral sympathetic nerve endings. These substances are normally involved in controlling heart rate, the work of cardiac contraction and peripheral resistance 12. Reserpine depletes brain (depression) and peripheral (PPH) noradrenaline (NA) storage sites, guanethidine depleted NA storage via blockade of reuptake 14. This agent binds and inhibits catecholamine pump on the storage vesicles in central and peripheral adrenergic neurons, thereby inhibiting the uptake of norepinephrine, dopamine serotonin into presynaptic storage vesicles. This results in catecholamines and serotonin lingering in the cytoplasm where they are destroyed by intraneuronal monoamine oxidase, thereby causing the depletion of catecholamine and serotonin stores in central and peripheral nerve terminals. Depletion results in a lack of active transmitter discharge from nerve endings upon nerve depolarization, and consequently leads to a decreased heart rate and decreased arterial blood pressure as well as sedative effects 12. Mean maximum plasma levels of plasma concentrations after 0.5 mg of Reserpine, administered as two 0.25 mg tablets or as an aqueous solution, peaked after 2.5 hours. The mean peak level was approximately 1.1 ng/ml. Bioavailability of Reserpine, has been reported to be approximately 50% 16. Reserpine is extensively bound (95%) to plasma proteins 15. Reserpine is almost completely metabolized in the body, and only about 1% is excreted as unchanged drug in the urine 15.
Hepatic metabolism accounts for less than 50% of the elimination of reserpine, with the remainder being eliminated in the faeces, and some unmetabolized reserpine and metabolites being eliminated in the urine. In man, metabolites are methylreserpate and trimethoxybenzoic acid. Metabolism may be more important with intramuscular administration 18. The elimination of reserpine and its metabolites in the feces ranges from 30% after intramuscular administration to
about 60% after oral ingestion, primarily as unmetabolized reserpine, over a 4 day period after the
Tannic acid | DrugBank Online Tannic acid is a polyphenolic compound. It is a type of the commercially available tannins. It acts as a weak acid. Tannic acid is found in the nutgalls formed by insects on twigs of certain oak trees (Quercus infectoria and other Quercus species). It is removed and used as medicine. In the old days it was used as antidote against different poisons.
Nowadays, tannic acid is applied topically for the treatment of cold sores, diaper rash, fever blisters and poison ivy. Tannic acid is also taken by mouth and applied directly for bleeding, chronic diarrhea, dysentery, bloody urine, painful joints, persistent coughs, and cancer. Tannic acid is indicated for cold sores, fever blisters, diaper rash, minor burn or sunburn and prickly heat.
Indocyanine green | DrugBank Online Indocyanine Green is a water soluble, tricarbocyanine dye with a peak spectral absorption at 800 nm. The chemical name for Indocyanine Green is 1 H-Benz[e]indolium, 2-[7-[1,3-dihydro-1,1-dimethyl-3-(4-sulfobutyl)-2H-benz[e] indol-2-ylidene]-1,3,5-heptatrienyl]-1,1-dimethyl-3-(4-sulfobutyl)-,hydroxide, inner salt, sodium salt. Indocyanine Green for Injection USP has a pH of approximately 6.5 when reconstituted. Each vial of Indocyanine Green for Injection USP contains 25 mg of Indocyanine Green as a sterile lyophilized powder with no more than 5% sodium iodide. For Determining Cardiac Output, Hepatic Function and Liver Blood Flow
For ophthalmic angiography Indocyanine Green for Injection USP undergoes no significant extrahepatic or enterohepatic circulation; simultaneous arterial and venous blood estimations have shown negligible renal, peripheral, lung or cerebro-spinal uptake of the dye. Indocyanine Green for Injection USP is taken up from the plasma almost exclusively by the hepatic parenchymal cells and is secreted entirely into the bile. After biliary obstruction, the dye appears in the hepatic lymph, independently of the bile, suggesting that the biliary mucosa is sufficiently intact to prevent diffusion of the dye, though allowing diffusion of bilirubin. These characteristics make Indocyanine Green for Injection USP a helpful index of hepatic function. It has a peak spectral absorption at about 800 nm. ICG distribution into the mouse fetus can be enhanced when used concomitantly with OATP or P-glycoprotein inhibitors. The greater distribution within individual fetal tissues is likely related to ICG's greater transplacental transfer.  98% The dye is excreted in bile in unconjugated form. ICG has a half-life of 150 to 180 seconds. Clearance of dyes which are removed from the circulation principally by the liver constitutes one of the best methods for evaluating hepatic function. Mouse LD50 60mg/kg ( intravenous )
Esterified estrogens | DrugBank Online Esterified estrogens contain a mixture of estrogenic substances; the principle component is estrone. Preparations contain 75% to 85% sodium estrone sulfate and 6% to 15% sodium equilin sulfate such that the total is not <90%. Esterified estrogens are a man-made mixture of estrogens that are used to treat symptoms of menopause such as hot flashes, vaginal dryness, vaginal burning or irritation, or other hormonal changes in the vagina. It is being also for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis. Esterified estrogens are indicated to replace estrogen in women with ovarian failure or other conditions that cause a lack of natural estrogen in the body.
It is also indicated for the treatment of symptoms of breast cancer in both men and women. In men it can be used for the treatment of advanced prostate cancer.
It is also indicated for the treatment of menopausal symptoms.  Estrogens are responsible for the development and maintenance of the female reproductive system and secondary sexual characteristics. Estradiol is the principle intracellular human estrogen and is more potent than estrone and estriol at the receptor level; it is the primary estrogen secreted prior to menopause. Estrogens modulate the pituitary secretion of gonadotropins, luteinizing hormone, and follicle-stimulating hormone through a negative feedback system; estrogen replacement reduces elevated levels of these hormones. Readily absorbed after oral administration. High concentrations of estrone are achieved with oral administration, whereas higher concentrations of estradiol are generally achieved after percutaneous absorption. Although vaginal products (such as gel, rings, etc.) are administered locally, they achieve high serum concentrations. The distribution of exogenous estrogens is similar to that of endogenous estrogens. Estrogens are widely distributed in the body and are generally found in higher concentration in the sex hormone target organs. Approximately 95-98% of estradiol is bound loosely to albumin or tightly to sex hormone binding globulin.  Hepatic; partial metabolism via CYP3A4 enzymes; estradiol is reversibly converted to estrone and estriol; oral estradiol also undergoes enterohepatic recirculation by conjugation in the liver, followed by excretion of sulfate and glucuronide conjugates into the bile, then hydrolysis in the intestine and estrogen reabsorption. Sulfate conjugates are the primary form found in postmenopausal women. Mainly urinary as estradiol, estrone, estriol, and their glucuronide and sulfate conjugates. Half-life varies, it is in the range 1-2 hr. There is variation in the clearance rate depends on each estrogen individual:
estradiol-17β: 580 L/day/m2
estrone: 4050 L/day/m2
estriol: 1110 L/day/m2 LD50 IP 325 mg/Kg (rat).
LD50 IV 1740 mg/Kg (mouse).
Phosphoric acid | DrugBank Online Phosphoric Acid is a colorless, odorless phosphorus-containing inorganic acid. Phosphoric acid is a sequestering agent which binds many divalent cations, including Fe++, Cu++, Ca++, and Mg++. Phosphoric acid is used in dentistry and orthodontics as an etching solution, to clean and roughen the surfaces of teeth where dental appliances or fillings will be placed. Transport of phosphate from the gut lumen is an active, energy-dependent process that is modified by several factors. ... Vitamin D stimulates phosphate absorption, an effect reported to precede its action on calcium ion transport. Phosphate supplementation of the diet of rodents has been shown to lead to reduction in the incidence of dental caries and different phosphates have different powers in reducing the cariogenic potential of the carbohydrates in a diet. Phosphate supplements seem to exert their cariostatic effect on the tooth surface either directly during eating or by excretion in the saliva. Ortho phosphate is absorbed from, and to a limited extent secreted into, the gastrointestinal tract.  Absorbed phosphoric acid is distributed widely in the body as phosphate. Increased serum phosphate concentrations have been reported rarely after phosphoric acid ingestion In adults, about two thirds of the ingested phosphate is absorbed, and that which is absorbed is almost entirely excreted into the urine. In infants with normal renal function the serum half-life of phosphate following single oral or rectal overdose is 5-11 hours Absorbed phosphate is filtered at the glomerulus and partially reabsorbed, with phosphate clearance 80 per cent of creatinine clearance. Man: LDLo, route unreported at 220mg/kg
Rabbit: LD 50, Route: Skin, Reported dose: 2740 mg /kg, Effects: Behavioral : somnolence ( general depressed activity), Excitement
Rat: LC50, Route: inhalation, Reported dose: >850 mg/m3/1h
Dextropropoxyphene napsylate | DrugBank Online Dextropropoxyphene is an opioid analgesic manufactured by Eli Lilly and Company. It is used in the symptomatic treatment of mild pain. It displays antitussive and local anaesthetic actions. Due to the risk of cardiac arrhythmias and overdose, possibly leading to death, dextropropoxyphene has been withdrawn from the market in Europe and the United States. The drug is often referred to as the general form, "propoxyphene", however only the dextro-isomer (dextropropoxyphene) has any analgesic effect. The levo-isomer appears to exhibit a very limited antitussive effect.
Technetium Tc-99m sulfur colloid | DrugBank Online Technetium 99m sulfur colloid is a radiopharmaceutical diagnostic agent used in the evaluation of various conditions including lymph node metastases in breast cancer, detection of shunt patency, imaging of reticuloendothelial cells for assessment of liver function, and studies of esophageal transit and gastroesophageal reflux. Following injection or oral administration, single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) imaging is performed using a gamma camera to detect technetium-99m decay. This is possible as Technetium-99m decays by isomeric transition to technetium-99 through the release of a gamma ray. Depending on site of administration and intended usage, Technetium 99m sulfur colloid enters the capillaries and is transported to the lymph nodes (subcutaneous injection), mixes with peritoneal fluid (intraperitoneal injection), is taken up by reticulocytes (intravenous injection), or enters the gastroesphageal tract (oral administration). Technetium 99m sulfur colloid is indicated as a diagnostic agent in adults for the following tests: localization of lymph nodes draining a primary tumor in patients with breast cancer or malignant melanoma; and evaluation of peritoneo-venous (LeVeen) shunt patency. It is indicated in both adult and pediatric patients for: imaging areas of functioning reticuloendothelial cells in the liver, spleen and bone marrow; and studies of esophageal transit and gastroesophageal reflux, and detection of pulmonary aspiration of gastric contents. Following injection or oral administration, single photon emission computer tomography (SPECT) imaging is performed using a gamma camera to detect technetium-99m decay. This is possible as Technetium-99m decays by isomeric transition to technetium-99 through the release of a gamma ray.  When administered subcutaneously, Technetium Tc 99m Sulfur Colloid enters the lymphatic capillaries and is transported with lymph to lymph nodes where it can be used to detect drainage of primary tumours.
When administered by intraperitoneal injection, Technetium Tc 99m Sulfur Colloid mixes with the peritoneal fluid where the rate of clearance from the cavity allows assessment of shunt patency.
When administered by intravenous injection, Technetium Tc 99m Sulfur Colloid is taken up by the reticuloendothelial system (RES), allowing RES rich structures to be imaged. Uptake of the radioactive colloid by organs of the RES is dependent upon both their relative blood flow rates and the functional capacity of the phagocytic cells.
When administered orally, Technetium Tc 99m sulfur colloid can be used in esophageal transit studies, gastroesophageal reflux scintigraphy, and for the detection of pulmonary aspiration of gastric contents. This is possible as the active substance is not absorbed from the GI tract.  Following oral ingestion, Technetium Tc 99m Sulfur Colloid is distributed primarily through the gastrointestinal tract. In the average patient 80 to 90% of the injected collodial particles are phagocytized by the Kupffer cells of the liver, 5 to 10% by the spleen and the balance by the bone marrow. Following oral ingestion, elimination is primarily through the feces.  Technetium Tc 99m decays by isomeric transition with a physical half-life of 6.02 hours. Following intravenous administration, Technetium Tc 99m Sulfur Colloid Injection is rapidly cleared from the blood by the reticuloendothelial system with a nominal half-life of approximately 2 1/2 minutes. The most frequently reported adverse reactions, across all categories of use and routes of administration, include rash, allergic reaction, urticaria, anaphylaxis/anaphylactic shock, and hypotension. Less frequently reported adverse reactions are fatal cardiopulmonary arrest, seizures, dyspnea, bronchospasm, abdominal pain, flushing, nausea, vomiting, itching, fever, chills, perspiration, numbness, and dizziness. Local injection site reactions, including burning, blanching, erythema, sclerosis, swelling, eschar, and scarring, have also been reported. Anaphylactic reactions including rare fatalities have occurred following intravenously administered Technetium Tc 99m Sulfur Colloid.
Magnesium chloride | DrugBank Online Magnesium chloride salts are highly soluble in water and the hydrated form of magnesium chloride can be extracted from brine or sea water. Magnesium chloride is used in several medical and topical (skin related) applications. Magnesium chloride usp, anhydrous uses as electrolyte replenisher, pharmaceutic necessity for hemodialysis and peritoneal dialysis fluids. Magnesium is important as a cofactor in many enzymatic reactions in the body involving protein synthesis and carbohydrate metabolism (at least 300 enzymatic reactions require magnesium). Actions on lipoprotein lipase have been found to be important in reducing serum cholesterol and on sodium/potassium ATPase in promoting polarization (eg, neuromuscular functioning). Mechanism of action of magnesium chloride studied in 10 adult volunteers. Results suggested magnesium ion in duodenum is relatively weak stimulus to pancreas and gall bladder. It is weak stimulant to cholecystokinin release and inhibits net jejunal water absorption.
The oral administration of a single 800 mg dose of magnesium chloride in healthy volunteers resulted in a diminished rate of intraluminal lipid and protein digestion. The most pronounced effect of magnesium chloride, however, was a decreased gastric emptying rate of both test meals. After correction for gastric emptying, no differences were noted in intraluminal lipid or protein digestion. Therefore, the lower lipid levels noted after magnesium supplementation are unlikely to be the result of altered lipid assimilation. Magnesium chloride slows gastric emptying but does not influence lipid digestion. Oral: Inversely proportional to amount ingested; 40% to 60% under controlled dietary conditions; 15% to 36% at higher doses Bone (50% to 60%); extracellular fluid (1% to 2%) 30%, to albumin Magnesium levels are efficiently regulated by the kidneys. Magnesium also undergoes efficient enterohepatic circulation Magnesium is excreted in urine. Unabsorbed magnesium is excreted in feces Elimination half-life has been reported to be 27.7 hours following an overdose of 400 mEq magnesium in an adult. Maximum magnesium clearance is directly proportional to creatinine clearance.  Mouse LD50 775mg/kg (intraperitoneal)
Mouse LD50 : 7600mg/kg (oral)
Rat LD 50 : 8100mg/kg (oral)
Rat LD50 176mg/kg (intravenous)
Monopotassium phosphate | DrugBank Online Monopotassium phosphate, MKP, (also potassium dihydrogenphosphate, KDP, or monobasic potassium phosphate), KH2PO4, is a soluble salt of potassium and the dihydrogen phosphate ion. It is a source of phosphorus and potassium as well as a buffering agent. It can be used in fertilizer mixtures to reduce escape of ammonia by keeping pH low. Used in buffers (determination of pH, pharmaceutical production, urinary acidifier, paper processing, baking powder, and food), nutrient solutions, yeast foods, special liquid fertilizers, sonar systems and other electronic applications;
Used as a nutritional supplement in foods, a nonlinear optical material for laser use, and in wastewater treatment;  Potassium is the major cation of intracellular fluid and is essential for maintenance of acid-base balance, isotonicity, and electrodynamic characteristics of the cell. Potassium is an important activator in many enzymatic reactions and is essential to a number of physiologic processes including transmission of nerve impulses; contraction of cardiac, smooth, and skeletal muscles; gastric secretion; renal function; tissue synthesis; and carbohydrate metabolism.
Phosphate is a major intracellular anion that participates in providing energy for metabolism of substrates and contributes to important metabolic and enzymatic reactions in almost all organs and tissues. Phosphate exerts a modifying influence on calcium concentrations, a buffering effect on acid-base equilibrium, and has a major role in the renal excretion of hydrogen ions.  hosphorus has a number of important functions in the biochemistry of the body. The bulk of the body's phosphorus is located in the bones, where it plays a key role in osteoblastic and osteoclastic activities. Enzymatically catalyzed phosphate-transfer reactions are numerous and vital in the metabolism of carbohydrate, lipid and protein, and a proper concentration of the anion is of primary importance in assuring an orderly biochemical sequence. ln addition, phosphorus plays an important role in modifying steady-state tissue concentrations of calcium. Phosphate ions are important buffers of the intracellular fluid, and also play a primary role in the renal excretion of the hydrogen ion. Oral administration of inorganic phosphates increases serum phosphate levels. Phosphates lower urinary calcium levels in idiopathic hypercalciuria. Potassium salts are well absorbed from the GI tract. Ingested phosphates are absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract. However, the presence of large amounts of calcium or aluminum may lead to formation of insoluble phosphate and reduce the net absorption. Vitamin D stimulates phosphate absorption. Potassium first enters the extracellular fluid and is then actively transported into the cells where its concentration is up to 40 times that outside the cell. Dextrose, insulin, and oxygen facilitate movement of potassium into cells.  In healthy adults, plasma potassium concentrations generally range from 3.5-5 mEq/L. Plasma concentrations up to 7.7 mEq/L may be normal in neonates. Renal (90%) and fecal (10%) Phosphates
Potassium is excreted mainly by the kidneys. Small amounts of potassium may be excreted via the skin and intestinal tract, but most of the potassium excreted into the intestine is later reabsorbed.  In healthy children with phosphate overdose, half-life was 4.8 to 10.6 hours, and was prolonged to 17 hours in a child with renal insufficiency. Phosphates are rapidly cleared by dialysis. Dialysis can also be used to treat other electrolyte abnormalities such as hypernatremia, hypocalcemia, and hypomagnesemia. Rabbit : LD50 >4640mg/kg (skin)
Dipotassium phosphate | DrugBank Online Dipotassium phosphate (K2HPO4) is a highly water-soluble salt often used as a fertilizer and food additive as a source of phosphorus and potassium as well as a buffering agent. Dipotassium phosphate is used in imitation dairy creamers, dry powder beverages, mineral supplements, and starter cultures as an additive. It is used in non-dairy creamers to prevent coagulation. Dipotassium phosphate is also used to make buffer solutions and it is used in the production of trypticase soy agar which is used to make agar plates for culturing bacteria. Phosphate is a major intracellular anion which participates in providing energy for metabolism of substances and contributes to important metabolic and enzymatic reactions in almost all organs and tissues. Phosphate exerts a modifying influence on calcium concentrations, a buffering effect on acid-base equilibrium, and has a major role in the renal excretion of hydrogen ions. Once phosphate gains access to the body fluids and tissues, it exerts little pharmacological effect. If the ion is introduced into the intestine, the absorbed phosphate is rapidly excreted. If large amounts are given by this route, much of it may escape absorption. Because this property leads to a cathartic action, phosphate salts are employed as mild laxatives. Potassium salts are well absorbed from gastro intestinal tract. Net phosphorus absorption may occur in the small intestine in some species but is primarily a function of the colon in horses. Distribution is largely intracellular, but it is the intravascular concentration that is primarily responsible for toxicity. Phosphate is minimally protein bound, and highly concentrated in cells (intracellular concentrations are 100-fold higher than serum concentrations). Concentrations of phosphate in plasma are higher in children than in adults. Phosphate is a major intracellular anion which participates in providing energy for metabolism of substances and contributes to important metabolic and enzymatic reactions in almost all organs and tissues. Potassium is excreted primarily by kidney. In healthy children with phosphate overdose, half-life was 4.8 to 10.6 hours, and was prolonged to 17 hours in a child with renal insufficiency. Phosphates are rapidly cleared by dialysis. LD50 not available.
Indium In-111 pentetate | DrugBank Online Indium In-111 pentetate disodium is a radioactive diagnostic indicated for use in radionuclide cisternography. Decay of In-111 by electron capture allows for detection with a gamma camera for visualization of the brain and spinal column. Pentetate Indium Disodium In 111 is recommended for use in radionuclide cisternography. Decay of In-111 by electron capture allows for detection with a gamma camera for visualization of the brain and spinal column. After intrathecal administration, the radiopharmaceutical is absorbed from the subarachnoid space as described below, and the remainder flows superiorly to the basal cisterns within 2 to 4 hours and subsequently will be apparent in the Sylvian cisterns, the interhemispheric cisterns, and over the cerebral convexities. In normal individuals, the radiopharmaceutical will have ascended to the parasagittal region within 24 hours with simultaneous partial or complete clearance of activity from the basal cisterns and Sylvian regions. In contrast to air, the radiopharmaceutical does not normally enter the cerebral ventricles.
Chlorpheniramine | DrugBank Online A histamine H1 antagonist used in allergic reactions, hay fever, rhinitis, urticaria, and asthma. It has also been used in veterinary applications. One of the most widely used of the classical antihistaminics, it generally causes less drowsiness and sedation than promethazine. For the treatment of rhinitis, urticaria, allergy, common cold, asthma and hay fever. In allergic reactions an allergen interacts with and cross-links surface IgE antibodies on mast cells and basophils. Once the mast cell-antibody-antigen complex is formed, a complex series of events occurs that eventually leads to cell-degranulation and the release of histamine (and other chemical mediators) from the mast cell or basophil. Once released, histamine can react with local or widespread tissues through histamine receptors. Histamine, acting on H1-receptors, produces pruritis, vasodilatation, hypotension, flushing, headache, tachycardia, and bronchoconstriction. Histamine also increases vascular permeability and potentiates pain. Chlorpheniramine, is a histamine H1 antagonist (or more correctly, an inverse histamine agonist) of the alkylamine class. It competes with histamine for the normal H1-receptor sites on effector cells of the gastrointestinal tract, blood vessels and respiratory tract. It provides effective, temporary relief of sneezing, watery and itchy eyes, and runny nose due to hay fever and other upper respiratory allergies. Chlorpheniramine binds to the histamine H1 receptor. This blocks the action of endogenous histamine, which subsequently leads to temporary relief of the negative symptoms brought on by histamine. Well absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract. 72% Primarily hepatic via Cytochrome P450 (CYP450) enzymes. 21-27 hours Oral LD50 (rat): 306 mg/kg; Oral LD50 (mice): 130 mg/kg; Oral LD50 (guinea pig): 198 mg/kg [Registry of Toxic Effects of Chemical Substances. Ed. D. Sweet, US Dept. of Health & Human Services: Cincinatti, 2010.]
Iodoxamate meglumine | DrugBank Online Radiopaque medium used in the diagnosis of gall bladder & bile duct diseases, usually as meglumine salt.
Tartaric acid | DrugBank Online Tartaric acid is a white crystalline organic acid that occurs naturally in many plants, most notably in grapes.Tartaric is an alpha-hydroxy-carboxylic acid, is diprotic and aldaric in acid characteristics, and is a dihydroxyl derivative of succinic acid. Tartaric Acid is primarily indicated in conditions like Antiscorbutic, Antiseptic. Tartaric acid is used to generate carbon dioxide through interaction with sodium bicarbonate following oral administration. Carbon dioxide extends the stomach and provides a negative contrast medium during double contrast radiography. In high doses, this agent acts as a muscle toxin by inhibiting the production of malic acid, which could cause paralysis and maybe death. Oral or parenteral doses of monosodium 14C-L(+)-tartrate (400 mg/kg) are rapidly excreted by rats and a proportion completely metabolized to CO2. The oral dose was well-absorbed. Most tartarate that is consumed by humans is metabolized by bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract , primarily in the large instestine. Only about 15-20% of consumed tartaric acid is secreted in the urine unchanged. Routes of Entry: Inhalation. Ingestion. Toxicity to Animals:
Lowest Published Lethal Dose:
LDL [Rat - Route: oral; Dose: 7500 mg/kg
LDL Rabbit - Route: Oral; Dose: 5000 mg/kg
LDL [Dog] - Rout: Oral; Dose: 5000 mg/kg
Lethal Dose/Conc 50% kill:
LD50 [Mouse] - Route: Intravenous; Dose: 485 mg/kg Other Toxic Effects on Humans:
Acute Potential Health Effects:
Skin: Causes skin irritation
Eyes: Causes eye irritation
Inhalation: Causes respiratory tract irritation
Ingestion: Causes gastrointestinal tract irritation with nausea, vomiting and diarrhea. May affect kidneys (kidney
damage), blood, and behavior (convulsions, somnolence), and respiration.
Chronic Potential Health Effects:
Ingestion: Repeated or prolonged ingestion may cause lesions of the mouth, gastric ulcers, gastrointestinal
hyperacidity, and symptoms similar to those of metal fume fever - flu-like condition with fever, chills, sweats,
nausea, vomiting, muscle aches, pains, and weakness.
Sodium carbonate | DrugBank Online Sodium Carbonate is the disodium salt of carbonic acid with alkalinizing property. When dissolved in water, sodium carbonate forms carbonic acid and sodium hydroxide. As a strong base, sodium hydroxide neutralizes gastric acid thereby acting as an antacid. Used topically for dermatitides, mouthwash, vaginal douche; veterinary use as emergency emetic.Occasionally, for dermatitides topically as a lotion. Medication (Vet): In solution to cleanse skin, in eczema, to soften scabs of ringworm. Alkalizing buffering action: Sodium bicarbonate is an alkalinizing agent that dissociates to provide bicarbonate ion. Bicarbonate in excess of that needed to buffer hydrogen ions causes systemic alkalinization and, when excreted, urine alkalinization as well.
Oral antacid action: Taken orally, sodium bicarbonate neutralizes stomach acid by the above mechanism.  Carbon dioxide from the tissues diffuses rapidly into red blood cells, where it is hydrated with water to form carbonic acid. This reaction is accelerated by carbonic anhydrase, an enzyme present in high concentrations in red blood cells. The carbonic acid formed dissociates into bicarbonate and hydrogen ions. Most of the bicarbonate ions diffuse into the plasma. Since the ratio of H2CO3 to dissolved CO2 is constant at equilibrium, pH may be expressed in terms of bicarbonate ion concentration and partial pressure of CO2 by means of the Henderson-Hasselbach equation:
pH = pk + log [HCO3-]/aPCO2 The uptake of sodium, via exposure to sodium carbonate, is much less than the uptake of sodium via food. Therefore, sodium carbonate is not expected to be systemically available in the body. Furthermore, an oral uptake of sodium carbonate will result in a neutralization in the stomach due to the gastric acid. Distribution occurs naturally and is confined to the systemic circulation. None.  Filtered and reabsorbed by the kidney; less than 1% of filtered bicarbonate is excreted.  Man: LD50 (Oral) - 714 mg/kg, Effect: Behavioural,General Anesthetic : GI Ulceration or Bleeding from small intestine.
Mouse : LC50 ( Inhalation ) - 1200mg/m3/2h : GI Other Change
Mouse : LC50 ( Intraperitoneal ) - 117mg/kg
Mouse : LD50 ( Oral) - 6600mg/kg
Mouse : LD50 (Subcutaneous ) - 2210 mg/kg
Rat : LC50 ( Inhalation ) 2300mg/m3/2H
Glycerin | DrugBank Online A trihydroxy sugar alcohol that is an intermediate in carbohydrate and lipid metabolism. It is used as a solvent, emollient, pharmaceutical agent, and sweetening agent. Glycerin is commonly classified as an osmotic laxative but may act additionally or alternatively through its local irritant effects; it may also have lubricating and fecal softening actions. Glycerin suppositories usually work within 15 to 30 minutes. When administered rectally, glycerin exerts a hygroscopic and/or local irritant action, drawing water from the tissues into the feces and reflexively stimulating evacuation.
Glycerin decreases intraocular pressure by creating an osmotic gradient between the blood and intraocular fluid, causing fluid to move out of the aqueous and vitreous humors into the bloodstream. Well absorbed orally, poorly absorbed rectally. Studies in humans and animals indicate glycerol is rapidly absorbed in the intestine and the stomach Glycerin is distributed throughout the blood. Although glycerin generally does not appear in ocular fluids, it may enter the orbital sac when the eye is inflamed, with a consequent decrease in osmotic effect. Glycerin is a substrate for synthesis of triacylglycerols and of phospholipids in the liver and adipose tissue. When fat metabolized as a source of energy, glycerol and fatty acids are released into the bloodstream. Circulating glycerin does not glycate proteins and does not lead to the formation of advanced glycation endproducts (AGEs). In some organisms, the glycerin component can enter the glycolysis pathway directly to provide a substrate for energy or glucose production. Glycerol must be converted to their intermediate glyceraldehyde 3-phosphate before being used in glycolysis or gluconeogenesis. Glycerol metabolism is regulated by the enzymes glycerol kinase, (cytosolic) NAD+-dependent G3P dehydrogenase and (mitochondrial) FAD-linked G3P dehydrogenase. Approx 7-14% of dose is excreted unchanged in the urine within 2.5 hr. 30 - 45 minutes Glycerol has very low toxicity when ingested ;
Rat LD50 (oral)-12600mg/kg
Mice LD50 (oral )-4090mg/kg
Nicotine | DrugBank Online Nicotine is highly toxic alkaloid. It is the prototypical agonist at nicotinic cholinergic receptors where it dramatically stimulates neurons and ultimately blocks synaptic transmission. Nicotine is also important medically because of its presence in tobacco smoke. For the relief of nicotine withdrawal symptoms and as an aid to smoking cessation. Nicotine, the primary alkaloid in tobacco products binds stereo-selectively to nicotinic-cholinergic receptors on autonomic ganglia, the adrenal medulla, neuromuscular junctions and in the brain. Nicotine exerts two effects, a stimulant effect exerted at the locus ceruleus and a reward effect in the limbic system. Itranvenous administration of nicotine causes release of acetylcholine, norepinephrine, dopamine, serotonine, vasopressin, beta-endorphin and ACTH. Nicotine is a highly addictive substance. Nicotine also induces peripheral vasoconstriction, tachycardia and elevated blood pressure. Nicotine inhalers and patches are used to treat smoking withdrawl syndrome. Nicotine is classified as a stimulant of autonomic ganglia. Nicotine is a stimulant drug that acts as an agonist at nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. These are ionotropic receptors composed up of five homomeric or heteromeric subunits. In the brain, nicotine binds to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors on dopaminergic neurons in the cortico-limbic pathways. This causes the channel to open and allow conductance of multiple cations including sodium, calcium, and potassium. This leads to depolarization, which activates voltage-gated calcium channels and allows more calcium to enter the axon terminal. Calcium stimulates vesicle trafficking towards the plasma membrane and the release of dopamine into the synapse. Dopamine binding to its receptors is responsible the euphoric and addictive properties of nicotine.
Sodium sulfate | DrugBank Online Sodium Sulfate Anhydrous is the anhydrous, sodium salt form of sulfuric acid. Sodium sulfate anhydrous disassociates in water to provide sodium ions and sulfate ions. Sodium ion is the principal cation of the extracellular fluid and plays a large part in the therapy of fluid and electrolyte disturbances. Sodium sulfate anhydrous is an electrolyte replenisher and is used in isosmotic solutions so that administration does not disturb normal electrolyte balance and does not lead to absorption or excretion of water and ions. indicated for bowel cleansing prior to colonoscopy or barium enema X-ray examination. Induces catharsis by the osmotic effects of the unabsorbed sulfate salts and polyethylene glycol (PEG) in the GI tract. Specifically, sulfate salts provide sulfate anions, which are poorly absorbed, and PEG, which is primarily unabsorbed, causes water to be retained in the GI tract resulting in watery diarrhea. MoviPrep produces a watery stool leading to cleansing of the colon. The osmotic activity of polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium sulfate, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, sodium ascorbate, and ascorbic acid, when taken with 1 liter of additional clear fluid, usually results in no net absorption or excretion of ions or water. Absorption of sodium sulfate after ingestion in rats was investigated. 35)S-Radioactivity excreted in urine during 24 hr indicated almost complete absorption from GI tract. Determination in serum 2 hr after admin revealed 3-fold increase in sulfate concentration rapid and almost complete absorption of inorganic sulfate occurs after oral admin in rats. Rectal effluent if unabsorbed sulfates ; urine (predominant route for absorbed sulfates ) Serum sulfate: 8.5 hours Mouse LD50 (Oral): 5989mg/kg
Mouse LDLo (Intravenous): 1220mg/kg
Indium In-111 oxyquinoline | DrugBank Online Indium In 111 oxyquinoline (oxine) is a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical intended for radiolabeling of autologous leukocytes. It is composed of a 3:1 saturated complex of In-111 isotope and oxyquinoline. Indium-111 decays by isomeric transition and electron capture to cadmium-111, emitting a gamma ray that can be detected with a gamma ray camera. It is therefore useful in nuclear medicine, and is used in the labeling of leukocytes for localization of processes to which leukocytes migrate, such as those associated with abscesses or other infections. The degree of accuracy may vary with labeling techniques and with the size, location and nature of the inflammatory process. Following intravenous administration, the lipid-soluble complex is able to penetrate platelet cell membranes. Once inside, Indium detaches from the oxyquinoline complexes and becomes attached to cytoplasmic components. Indium In 111 oxyquinoline is indicated for radiolabeling autologous leukocytes. Indium-111 decays by isomeric transition and electron capture to cadmium-111, emitting a gamma ray that can be detected with a gamma ray camera. Following intravenous administration, the lipid-soluble complex is able to penetrate platelet cell membranes. Once inside, Indium detaches from the oxyquinoline complexes and becomes attached to cytoplasmic components. After injection of labeled leukocytes into normal volunteers, about 30% of the dose is taken up by spleen and 30% by liver, reaching a plateau at 2-48 hours after injection. The presence of red blood cells or plasma will lead to reduced leukocyte labeling efficiency as transferrin in plasma competes for indium In 111 oxyquinoline. Elimination from the body of injected indium In 111 oxyquinoline is probably mainly through decay to stable cadmium since only a negligible amount (less than 1%) of the dose is excreted in feces and urine in 24 hours. Indium In 111 decays by electron capture with a physical half-life of 67.2 hours (2.8 days). Between 9.5 to 24.4% of the injected dose remains in whole blood and clears with a biological half-time of 2.8 to 5.5 hours. The remainder (13-18%) clears from blood with a biological half-time of 64 to 116 hours. Clearance from whole blood and biological distribution can vary considerably with the individual recipient, the condition of the injected cells and labeling techniques used. Clearance from liver and spleen, for the purpose of calculating the radiation dose, is assumed to be equal to the physical half-life of indium In 111 (67.2 hours). Due to radiation exposure, indium In 111 oxyquinoline labeled leukocytes could cause fetal harm when administered to pregnant women. If this radiopharmaceutical is used during pregnancy, the patient should be informed of the potential hazard to the fetus.
Hydrocodone | DrugBank Online Hydrocodone is a synthetic opioid derivative of codeine.14 It is commonly used in combination with acetaminophen to control moderate to severe pain. Historically, hydrocodone has been used as a cough suppressant although this has largely been replaced by dextromethorphan in current cough and cold formulations. Hydrocodone's more potent metabolite, hydromorphone has also found wide use as an analgesic and is frequently used in cases of severe pain. The FDA first approved Hydrocodone for use as part of the cough suppressant syrup Hycodan in March of 1943.17 Hydrocodone is indicated for the management of acute pain, sometimes in combination with acetaminophen or ibuprofen, as well as the symptomatic treatment of the common cold and allergic rhinitis in combination with decongestants, antihistamines, and expectorants.Label,16 Hydrocodone inhibits pain signaling in both the spinal cord and brain 12. Its actions in the brain also produce euphoria, respiratory depression, and sedation. Hydrocodone binds to the mu opioid receptor (MOR) with the highest affinity followed by the delta opioid receptors (DOR).13 Hydrocodone's agonist effect at the MOR is considered to contribute the most to its analgesic effects. Both MOR and DOR are Gi/o coupled and and produces its signal through activation of inward rectifier potassium (GIRK) channels, inhibition of voltage gated calcium channel opening, and decreased adenylyl cyclase activity.14 In the dorsal horn of the spinal cord, activation of pre-synaptic MOR on primary afferents the inhibition of calcium channel opening and increased activity of GIRK channels hyperpolarizes the neuron and prevents release of neurotransmitters. Post-synaptic MOR can also prevent activation of neurons by glutamate through the aforementioned mechanisms.  Hydrocodone can also produce several actions in the brain similarly to other opioids.
Sodium sulfate | DrugBank Online Sodium Sulfate Anhydrous is the anhydrous, sodium salt form of sulfuric acid. Sodium sulfate anhydrous disassociates in water to provide sodium ions and sulfate ions. Sodium ion is the principal cation of the extracellular fluid and plays a large part in the therapy of fluid and electrolyte disturbances. Sodium sulfate anhydrous is an electrolyte replenisher and is used in isosmotic solutions so that administration does not disturb normal electrolyte balance and does not lead to absorption or excretion of water and ions. indicated for bowel cleansing prior to colonoscopy or barium enema X-ray examination. Induces catharsis by the osmotic effects of the unabsorbed sulfate salts and polyethylene glycol (PEG) in the GI tract. Specifically, sulfate salts provide sulfate anions, which are poorly absorbed, and PEG, which is primarily unabsorbed, causes water to be retained in the GI tract resulting in watery diarrhea. MoviPrep produces a watery stool leading to cleansing of the colon. The osmotic activity of polyethylene glycol 3350, sodium sulfate, sodium chloride, potassium chloride, sodium ascorbate, and ascorbic acid, when taken with 1 liter of additional clear fluid, usually results in no net absorption or excretion of ions or water. Absorption of sodium sulfate after ingestion in rats was investigated. 35)S-Radioactivity excreted in urine during 24 hr indicated almost complete absorption from GI tract. Determination in serum 2 hr after admin revealed 3-fold increase in sulfate concentration rapid and almost complete absorption of inorganic sulfate occurs after oral admin in rats. Rectal effluent if unabsorbed sulfates ; urine (predominant route for absorbed sulfates ) Serum sulfate: 8.5 hours Mouse LD50 (Oral): 5989mg/kg
Mouse LDLo (Intravenous): 1220mg/kg
Enalaprilat | DrugBank Online Enalaprilat is the active metabolite of the orally available pro-drug, enalapril. Used in the treatment of hypertension, enalapril is an ACE inhibitor that prevents Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) from transforming angiotensin I into angiotensin II. As angiotensin II is responsible for vasoconstriction and sodium reabsorption in the proximal tubule of the kidney, down-regulation of this protein results in reduced blood pressure and blood fluid volume. Enalaprilat was originally created to overcome the limitations of the first ACE inhibitor, captopril, which had numerous side effects and left a metallic taste in the mouth. Removal of the problematic thiol group from captopril resulted in enalaprilat, which was then modified further with an ester to create the orally available pro-drug enalapril. Enalaprilat is poorly orally available and is therefore only available as an intravenous injection for the treatment of hypertension when oral therapy is not possible. Enalaprilat injection is indicated for the treatment of hypertension when oral therapy is not practical. Enalaprilat injection results in the reduction of both supine and standing systolic and diastolic blood pressure, usually with no orthostatic component. Symptomatic postural hypotension is therefore infrequent, although it might be anticipated in volume-depleted patients. The onset of action usually occurs within fifteen minutes of administration with the maximum effect occurring within one to four hours. The abrupt withdrawal of enalaprilat has not been associated with a rapid increase in blood pressure.
The duration of hemodynamic effects appears to be dose-related. However, for the recommended dose, the duration of action in most patients is approximately six hours.
Following administration of enalapril, there is an increase in renal blood flow; glomerular filtration rate is usually unchanged. The effects appear to be similar in patients with renovascular hypertension. Enalaprilat is the active metabolite of the orally available pro-drug, enalapril. Used in the treatment of hypertension, enalapril is an ACE inhibitor that prevents Angiotensin Converting Enzyme (ACE) from transforming angiotensin I into angiotensin II. As angiotensin II is responsible for vasoconstriction and sodium reabsorption in the proximal tubule of the kidney, down-regulation of this protein results in reduced blood pressure and blood fluid volume Enalaprilat is poorly absorbed following oral administration, and is therefore only available as an intravenous injection. Enalaprilat is approximately 50% bound to plasma proteins. (Davies, et al. 1984) Both enalapril and enalaprilat undergo renal excretion without further metabolism.  Excretion of enalaprilat is primarily renal with more than 90 percent of an administered dose recovered in the urine as unchanged drug within 24 hours. 11 hr The disposition of enalaprilat in patients with renal insufficiency is similar to that in patients with normal renal function until the glomerular filtration rate is 30 mL/min or less. Renal clearance was 158 ± 47 ml/min. Adverse experiences occurring in 0.5 to 1.0 percent of patients in controlled clinical trials included: myocardial infarction, fatigue, dizziness, fever, rash and constipation.
Rubidium chloride Rb-82 | DrugBank Online Rubidium chloride Rb-82 injection is a sterile nonpyrogenic solutions of rubidium Rb 82 chloride. It is indicated for Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging of the myocardium under rest or pharmacologic stress conditions to evaluate regional myocardial perfusion in adult patients with suspected or existing coronary artery disease. Rubidium Rb 82 chloride injection is indicated for Positron Emission Tomography (PET) imaging of the myocardium under rest or pharmacologic stress conditions to evaluate regional myocardial perfusion in adult patients with suspected or existing coronary artery disease. In human studies, myocardial activity was noted within the first minute after peripheral intravenous injection of Rb-82. When areas of infarction or ischemia are present in the myocardium, they are visualized within 2-7 minutes after injection as photon-deficient, or “cold”, areas on the myocardial scan.
In patients with reduced cardiac function, transit of the injected dose from the peripheral infusion site to the myocardium may be delayed
Sodium fluorophosphate | DrugBank Online Sodium monofluorophosphate is used in OTC dental preparations to help protect against cavities. Sodium monofluorophosphate is indicated for the treatment of cavities LD50 Oral: rat-502 -638 mg/kg
Avobenzone | DrugBank Online Avobenzone is dibenzoyl methane derivative. It is oil soluble ingredient. Avobenzone has the ability to absorb ultraviolet light over wider range of wavelengths. It is included in many commercially available sunscreens which are used as wide spectrum sunscreens. Avobenzone is very sensitive to light, to increase its stability and duration of action, photostablizers are added in the sunscreen product. Avobenzone has an absorption maximum of 357 nm. Sunscreens containing avobenzone is indicated for providing protection from the sun. In addition to limiting the skin's exposure to the sun, using sunscreen agents may help reduce long-term sun damage such as premature aging of the skin and skin cancer. Sun protection factor, added in the sunscreen products for its wide spectrum ultraviolet absorption properties.  It blocks UVA I, UVA II, and UVB wavelengths, thereby limiting the impact of UV rays on skin.
Octinoxate | DrugBank Online Octinoxate is a cinnamate ester and common ingredient in sunscreen and other skin care products to minimize DNA photodamage. It was originally developed in 1950's as an organic UV-B filter that absorbs UV-B rays from sun. It is often combined with nanoparticles or other water-resistant liposomes in formulations to increase the localization at the epidermis and decrease the risk of percutaneous absorption. Its use in pharmaceutical and cosmetic formulations is approved by FDA. As an active ingredient in sunscreens and lip balms. Used for protection against damaging effects of sun rays.  Acts as a photoprotective agent that protects the skin by preventing and minimizing the damaging effects of ultraviolet (UV) rays of natural light. The cellular effects of UV irradiation include DNA damage, cell cycle arrest, immunological depression, apoptosis, and transcriptional changes 7. Absorbs UV-B (predominantly) and UV-A rays while accumulating in the outermost layer of the epidermis. Like any other photoprotective agents, octinoxate prevents the damage to cells and deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) by reducing the p53 protein expression following UV exposure 7 and also increases the skin's tolerability to UV rays 6.  Can be systemically absorbed after skin application, being found in the deeper layers of the stratum corneum as well as urine, plasma, and breast milk 2. The mean maximum plasma concentration detected after application of 2mg/cm2 sunscreen was 7ng/mL in women and 16ng/mL in men 6.  None Can undergo hepatic metabolism when systematically absorbed. Can be enzymatically degraded by lipases in the stratum corneum where esters undergo hydrolysis 2. Degrade into photoproducts when exposed to sunlight, which leads to a decrease in UV absorption efficiency 6.  Can be detected in urine in unchanged form 4.  Slightly hazardous in case of skin contact, eye contact, ingestion and inhalation. Octinoxate may form reactive singlet oxygen species and induce anti-estrogenic effects 8. UV-induced molecular breakdown of octinoxate may interfere with cellular processes or induce oxidative damage in human skin 6.
Iobenguane | DrugBank Online Synthetic guanethidine derivative that locates phaeochromocytomas and neuroblastomas. The radioisotope used can either be iodine-123 for imaging or iodine-131 for destruction of tissues that metabolize noradrenaline. Iodine 123 is a cyclotron-produced radionuclide that decays to Te 123 by electron capture. Images are produced by a I123 MIBG scintigraphy. FDA approved on September 19, 2008. Detection of primary and metastatic pheochromocytoma or neuroblastoma  AdreView is a diagnostic radiopharmaceutical which contains a small quantity of iobenguane that is not expected to produce a pharmacodynamic effect. Patients with renal insufficiency may experience increased radiation exposure and impaired imaging results.  Structure of iobenguane is similar to noradrenaline so it can be taken up by adrenergic tissue in the adrenal medulla, liver, heart, and spleen. Once taken up by noradrenaline transporters in the adrenergic nerve terminals, it is stored in the presynaptic storage vesicles. The radioactive iodine component is responsible for its imaging properties.  Iobenguane rapidly clears from the blood and is highly retained in adrenergic tissues.  Less than 10% of the dose is metabolized into m-iodohippuric acid (MIHA). However the mechanism in which this metabolite is produced is unknown.  Renally excreted unchanged (70%-90%) via glomerular filtration;
Fecal (<1%)  Physical half life = 13.2 hours  Oral mouse: LD50 = 300 mg/kg;
Oral, rabbit: LD50 = 3200 mg/kg;
Oral, rat: LD50=980 mg/kg.
Thiosulfuric acid | DrugBank Online Thiosulfuric acid (as sodium thiosulfate) has the chemical name thiosulfuric acid, disodium salt, pentahydrate. The chemical formula is Na2S2O3•5H2O and the molecular weight is 248.17. Sodium Thiosulfate Injection is a cyanide antidote which contains one 50 mL glass vial containing a 25% solution of Sodium Thiosulfate Injection. It has been indicated as antidote for cyanide poisoning. It is also used as adjunct agent for patients taking cisplatin chemotherapy.  Beside the above indications, sodium thiosulfate could be used as ingredient in the following: agricultural chemicals (non-pesticidal), fillers, intermediates, laboratory chemicals, oxidizing/reducing agents, process regulators, processing aids, and solids separation agents. Indicated for sequential intravenous use with sodium nitrite for the treatment of acute cyanide poisoning that is judged to be life-threatening. In dogs, pretreatment with sodium thiosulfate to achieve a steady state level of 2 µmol/mL increased the rate of conversion of cyanide to thiocyanate over 30-fold. As antidote: Sodium thiosulfate acts as a sulfur donor for the endogenous sulfur transferase enzyme, rhodanese. It is used together with sodium nitrite for cyanide poisiong as antidote. Cyanide has a very high affinity for iron in the ferric state. It reacts with the trivalent (ferric) iron of mitochondrial cytochrome oxidase, thereby inhibiting cellular respiration, resulting in lactic acidosis and cytotoxic hypoxia. Sodium nitrite reacts with hemoglobin to form methemoglobin, which competes with cytochrome oxidase for the cyanide ion. Cyanide binds to methemoglobin to form cyanmethemoglobin and restore the activity of cytochrome oxidase. When cyanide dissociates from methemoglobin, sodium thiosulfate facilitates its conversion by rhodanese to thiocyanate, a less toxic ion.
As antineoplastic adjunct: The mechanism of action of sodium thiosulfate is still not clear, but it is thought that it forms a complex with cisplastin via covalent bond, which renders cisplastin more readily eliminated from the kidneys. It was believed also that sodium thiosulfate plays a role in the protection from nephrotoxicity caused by cisplastin, through reducing delivery of cisplatin to the kidneys and by neutralizing cisplatin in the kidneys where sodium thiosulfate is highly concentrated.  Thiosulfate taken orally is not systemically absorbed. Most of the thiosulfate is oxidized to sulfate or is incorporated into endogenous sulphur compounds; a small proportion is excreted through the kidneys.
After an intravenous injection of 1 g sodium thiosulfate in patients, the reported serum thiosulfate half-life was approximately 20 minutes. However, after an intravenous injection of a substantially higher dose of sodium thiosulfate (150 mg/kg, that is, 9 g for 60 kg body weight) in normal healthy men, the reported elimination half-life was 182 minutes. 150 mL/kg.  Data not found. Data not found. Elimination is primarily renal, approximately 20-50% of exogenously administered thiosulfate is eliminated unchanged via the kidneys
Antidote (to cyanide poisoning): Primarily as thiocyanate.
Fludeoxyglucose (18F) | DrugBank Online Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection is a positron emitting radiopharmaceutical containing no-carrier added radioactive 2-deoxy-2-[18F]fluoro-D-g1ucose, which is used for diagnostic purposes in conjunction with Positron Emission Tomography (PET). It is administered by intravenous injection. The uptake of 18F-FDG by tissues is a marker for the tissue uptake of glucose, which in turn is closely correlated with certain types of tissue metabolism.
Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection is indicated in positron emission tomography (PET) imaging for assessment of abnormal glucose metabolism to assist in the evaluation of malignancy in patients with known or suspected abnormalities found by other testing modalities, or in patients with an existing diagnoses of cancer.  Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection is rapidly distributed to all organs of the body after intravenous administration. After background clearance of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection, optimal PET imaging is generally achieved between 30 to 40 minutes after administration.
In cancer, the cells are generally characterized by enhanced glucose metabolism partially due to (1) an increase in the activity of glucose transporters, (2) an increased rate of phosphorylation activity, (3) a reduction of phosphatase activity or, (4) a dynamic alteration in the balance among all these
processes. However, glucose metabolism of cancer as reflected by Fludeoxyglucose F 18 accumulation shows considerable variability. Depending on tumor type, stage, and location, Fludeoxyglucose F 18 accumulation may be increased, normal, or decreased. Also, inflammatory cells can have the same variability of uptake of Fludeoxyglucose F 18.
In the heart, under normal aerobic conditions, the myocardium meets the bulk of its energy requirements by oxidizing free fatty acids. Most of the exogenous glucose taken up by the myocyte is converted into glycogen. However, under ischemic conditions, the oxidation of free fatty acids decreases, exogenous glucose becomes the preferred myocardial substrate, glycolysis is stimulated, and glucose taken up by the myocyte is metabolized immediately instead of being converted into glycogen. Under these conditions, phosphorylated Fludeoxyglucose F 18 accumulates in the myocyte and can be detected with PET imaging.
Normally, the brain relies on anaerobic metabolism. In epilepsy, the glucose metabolism varies. Generally, during a seizure glucose metabolism increases. Interictally, the seizure focus tends to be hypometabolic. Fludeoxyglucose F 18 is a glucose analog that concentrates in cells that rely upon glucose as an energy source, or in cells whose dependence on glucose increases under pathophysiological conditions. Fludeoxyglucose F 18 is transported through the cell membrane by facilitative glucose transporter proteins and is phosphorylated within the cell to [18F] FDG-6- phosphate by the enzyme hexokinase. Once phosphorylated it cannot exit until it is dephosphorylated by glucose-6-phosphatase. Therefore, within a given tissue or pathophysiological process, the retention and clearance of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 reflect a balance involving glucose transporter, hexokinase and glucose-6- phosphatase activities. When allowance is made for the kinetic differences between glucose and Fludeoxyglucose F 18 transport and phosphorylation (expressed as the “lumped constant” ratio), Fludeoxyglucose F 18 is used to assess glucose metabolism.
In comparison to background activity of the specific organ or tissue type, regions of decreased or absent uptake of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 reflect the decrease or absence of glucose metabolism. Regions of increased uptake of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 reflect greater than normal rates of glucose metabolism.  Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection is rapidly distributed to all organs of the body after intravenous administration. Fludeoxyglucose F 18 Injection is rapidly distributed to all organs of the body after intravenous administration. The extent of binding of Fludeoxyglucose F 18 to plasma proteins is not known.  Fludeoxyglucose F 18 is transported into cells and phosphorylated to [18F]-FDG-6-phosphate at a rate proportional to the rate of glucose utilization within that tissue. [18F]-FDG-6-phosphate presumably is metabolized to 2-deoxy-2-[18F] fluoro-6-phospho-Dmannose ([18F]FDM-6-phosphate).
Samarium (153Sm) lexidronam pentasodium | DrugBank Online Samarium Sm 153 lexidronam is a radioactive medication used to treat pain caused by cancer that has spread to the bone. It is a radiopharmaceutical. Radiopharmaceuticals are radioactive agents that may be used to diagnose some diseases by studying the function of the body's organs or to treat certain diseases.Samarium Sm 153 lexidronam is used to help relieve the bone pain that may occur with certain kinds of cancer. The radioactive samarium is taken up in the bone cancer area and gives off radiation that helps provide relief of pain.
Simethicone | DrugBank Online Simethicone is an orally administered antifoaming agent. It is mainly used to reduce gas from the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) in patients complaining from recurrent flatulence. Simethicone is a mixture of polydimethylsiloxane and hydrated silica gel. It exerts its action locally in the GIT, it is not absorbed into the blood stream.
The main side effects of simethicone are GIT related including: mild diarrhea, nausea and vomiting. Simethicone acts by decreasing the surface tension of gas bubbles, thus facilitating their coalescence and expulsion as flatus or belching.
It also prevents the formation and accumulation of mucus-enclosed pockets of gas in digestive tract.
Urea C-14 | DrugBank Online Urea 14C is a urea molecule radiolabelled with a radioactive carbon-14. It is currently used for the Urea Breath Test (UBT) and is available as a rapid diagnostic test (marketed as PyTest) for the detection of Helicobacter pylori infections. H pylori is a common stomach bacteria that has been linked to a variety of upper gastrointestinal disorders such as gastritis, gastric and peptic ulcers, stomach cancer, and gastric mucosa-associated lymphoid-tissue (MALT) lymphoma. The UBT is indicated to confirm H. pylori infection and to monitor post-treatment for its eradication.  Radiolabelled urea is available in two forms as 13C and 14C. Both forms can be used within the Urea Breath Test, however some may prefer 13C as it is non-radioactive compared to 14C, which may be preferable in pregnant women and children. The Urea Breath Test is based on the ability of the H. pylori enzyme urease to cleave urea into ammonia and carbon dioxide. As the urease enzyme is not present in mammalian cells, the presence of urease (and the products of urea cleavage) in the stomach is evidence that H. pylori bacteria are present. To detect H. pylori, urea labeled with 14C is swallowed by the patient. If gastric urease from H. pylori is present, urea is split to form CO2 and NH3 at the interface between the gastric epithelium and lumen and 14CO2 is absorbed into the blood and exhaled in the breath. Exhaled breath samples can then be collected and measured for the presence of radioactivity. 14C-urea is intended for use in the detection of gastric urease as an aid in the diagnosis of Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection in the human stomach. The test utilizes a liquid scintillation counter for the measurement of 14CO2 in breath samples. The urease enzyme is not present in mammalian cells, so the presence of urease in the stomach is evidence that bacteria are present. The presence of urease is not specific for H. pylori, but other bacteria are not usually found in the stomach. To detect H. pylori, urea labeled with 14C is swallowed by the patient. If gastric urease from H. pylori is present, urea is split to form CO2 and NH3 at the interface between the gastric epithelium and lumen and 14CO2 is absorbed into the blood and exhaled in the breath.
Titanium dioxide | DrugBank Online Titanium dioxide, also known as titanium(IV) oxide or titania, is the naturally occurring oxide of titanium. It is used as a pigment under the names titanium white, Pigment White 6 (PW6), or CI 77891. It is typically extracted from ilmenite, rutile and anatase. Titanium dioxide is used in most sunscreens to block UVA and UVB rays, similar to zinc oxide. Diminish the penetration of ultraviolet (UV) light through the epidermis by absorbing UV radiation within a specific wavelength range. The amount and wavelength of UV radiation absorbed are affected by the molecular structure of the sunscreen agent.  When male and female rats were fed a diet containing titanium dioxide (100 g/kg) for a period of about 32 days, a significant retention of titanium of 0.06 and 0.11 mg/kg wet weight was found only in the muscles; no retention was observed in the liver, spleen, kidney, bone, plasma, or erythrocytes Six hours after titanium dioxide was administered to rats through IV injection at 250 mg/kg body weight, the highest concentration appeared in the liver; after 24 hours, the highest concentration was detected in the celiac lymph nodes, which filter the lymph from the liver. The researchers/ determined blood levels of titanium dioxide (anatase) following oral ingestion of titanium-dioxide capsules and/or powder in six adult men (24-66 years of age). Titanium dioxide was absorbed by the gastrointestinal tract in a size dependent manner: smaller particles (0.16 um) were more readily absorbed than larger ones (0.38 um). Before the experiment, the background blood levels of titanium dioxide in these men ranged from approximately 6 to 18 ug/L. Blood levels reached up to approximately 50 ug/L or 100 ug/L between 4 and 12 hours after intake of 23 mg or 46 mg titanium dioxide, respectively Rats were intraperitoneal injected with 1.60 g/100 g body wt of TiO(2) in saline solution. Organs (liver, spleen, lung) were processed for histological evaluation. Reactive oxygen species (ROS) in alveolar macrophages obtained by bronchoalveolar lavage (BAL) were evaluated using the nitroblue tetrazolium test and quantitative evaluation by digital image analysis. The histological analysis of organs revealed the presence of titanium in the parenchyma of these organs with no associated tissue damage. Although in lung alveolar macrophages TiO(2) induced a significant rise in ROS generation, it failed to cause tissue alteration. This finding may be attributed to an adaptive response. The kinetics of TiO2 elimination in the rat lung following its deposition after 7 hr exposure at 10 and 50 mg/cu m were determined for periods up to 140 days.The retention half-time was 14 days for the first clearance phase and 88 days thereafter. The kinetics of TiO2 elimination in the rat lung following its deposition after 7 hr exposure at 10 and 50 mg/cu m were determined for periods up to 140 days...The retention half-time was 14 days for the first clearance phase and 88 days thereafter. The clearance of titanium dioxide from the lungs was studied in rats after inhalation of 15 or 100 mg/cu m. The average median aerodynamic diameter of the titanium dioxide particles was 1.48 um. After a single exposure, about 40-45% of the deposited particles were cleared from the lung in 25 days. At 15 mg/cu m, 0.7% was found in the hilar lymph nodes indicating penetration of titanium dioxide particles from alveoli into the lymphatic system and partial clearance by the lymphatic route. The clearance rate was similar after intra-tracheal administration of titanium dioxide. At an exposure of 100 mg/cu m, the clearance rate decreased drastically. /Other researchers/ demonstrated the presence of titanium dioxide in the lymphatic systems of 3 workers employed in processing titanium dioxide pigments. Rat - LD50 Intratracheal (>100ug/kg ) Effects: Structural or functional changes in bronchi and trachea.
Iodine povacrylex | DrugBank Online Iodine povacrylex (DuraPrep) is a surgical solution, film-forming iodophor complex that provides fast acting, persistent, broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity. DuraPrep solution is indicated for use as a patient preoperative skin preparation, for the preparation of the skin prior to surgery and to help reduce bacteria
that can potentially cause skin infection.
It is a broad spectrum antiseptic and can provide almost 99.9% antiseptic conditions.
Thonzonium | DrugBank Online Thonzonium is a monocationic surface-active agent with surfactant and detergent properties. It is widely used as an additive to in ear and nasal drops to enhance dispersion and penetration of cellular debris and exudate, thereby promoting tissue contact of the administered medication. A common pharmaceutical formulation of thonzonium bromide is cortisporin-TC ear drops. It is also reported that thonzonium also confers an antifungal property and antiresorptive effect on bone. Used as a monocationic surfactant and detergent to help penetration of active ingredients through cellular debris for its antibacterial action. Thonzonium bromide causes dispersion and penetration of cellular debris and exudate, thereby promoting tissue contact of the active ingredients contained in the administered medication. It is an inhibitor of vacuolar ATPase that uncouples and blocks the function of the pump without inhibiting ATP hydrolysis.  Thonzonium bromide is a suface-active agent added in nasal and ear drops that potentiates and lenghten the time of skin contact with the active compounds and penetration through the cellular debris.
Thonzonium bromide uncouples vacuolar ATPase in pathogenic fungi such as Candida albicans and inhibit cell growth in vitro. It interacts with the tether of subunit a (Vph1p) of the membrane-bound V0 subunit that forms the proton transport path. Disruption of the essential pump function prevents redistribution of cytosolic protons into the vacuolar lumen, resulting in acidification of the cytosol and cell death [A19501].
Filgrastim | DrugBank Online Chemotherapy-induced neutropenia (CIN) is a common and serious complication of myelosuppressive chemotherapy. It is associated with significant morbidity and mortality and can increase the cost of cancer therapy. In these cases, colony stimulating factor is necessary to restore important cells for immune function 3. For over twenty years, granulocyte colony-stimulating factors (G-CSFs; filgrastims) have been a pillar of treatment and prevention of CIN, and have been found to reduce the risk of neutropenia across various patient settings, decrease the incidence of febrile neutropenia, reduce the incidence of infection, reduce the requirement for treatment with antibiotics, and accelerate neutrophil recovery 3. Filgrastim is a recombinant, non-pegylated human granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G-CSF) analog. It is marketed as the brand name Neupogen by Amgen (initially approved in 1998) and as Nivestym, a biosimilar agent by Pfizer. Nivestym was approved by the FDA on July 20th, 2018 5. Between 1998 and the present, Neupogen/filgrastim has been approved for various indications 8. Tbo-filgrastim, which is marketed by Sicor Biotech and FDA approved on August 29, 2012, contains the same active ingredient as Neupogen and is biologically similar, but it is formulated to be short-acting 10. On March 6, 2015, the FDA approved the biosimilar Zarxio (filgrastim-sndz) and is indicated for use in the same conditions as Neupogen. Zarxio is marketed by Sandoz 7. This drug is a leucocyte growth factor Label indicated to: Decrease the incidence of infection‚ as manifested by febrile neutropenia‚
in patients with nonmyeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti-cancer drugs associated with a significant incidence of severe neutropenia with fever Label.  Reduce the time to neutrophil recovery and the duration of fever, following induction or consolidation chemotherapy treatment in patients with acute myeloid leukemia (AML) Label Reduce the duration of neutropenia and neutropenia-related clinical sequelae‚ e.g.‚ febrile neutropenia, in patients with nonmyeloid malignancies undergoing myeloablative chemotherapy followed by bone marrow transplantation (BMT) Label Mobilize autologous hematopoietic progenitor cells into the peripheral blood for collection by leukapheresis Label Reduce the incidence and duration of sequelae of severe neutropenia (e.g.‚ fever‚ infections‚ oropharyngeal ulcers) in symptomatic patients with congenital neutropenia‚ cyclic neutropenia‚ or idiopathic neutropenia Label. Neupogen is approved for treatment of patients with radiation-induced myelosuppression following a radiological/nuclear incident 6. Filgrastim binds to the G-CSF receptor and stimulates the production of neutrophils in the bone marrow Label.
Colony-stimulating factors are glycoproteins which act on hematopoietic cells by binding to specific cell surface receptors, in turn, stimulating proliferation and differentiation 9. G-CSF and its receptor are necessary for basal and stress-induced granulopoiesis, which forms neutrophils. Mice deficient in G-CSF or G-CSFR have severe neutropenia and reduced levels (~50%) of late-stage neutrophil precursors in the bone marrow under normal, resting conditions 4. Endogenous G-CSF is a lineage-specific colony-stimulating factor that is produced by monocytes‚ fibroblasts, and endothelial cells. G-CSF regulates the production of neutrophils within the bone marrow and enhances neutrophil progenitor proliferation‚ differentiation, and selected end-cell functions (including enhanced phagocytic ability‚ priming of the cellular metabolism associated with respiratory burst‚ antibody-dependent killing, and enhanced expression of certain cell surface antigens). G-CSF is not species-specific and has demonstrated to have negligible direct in vivo or in vitro effects on the production or action of hematopoietic cell types other than the neutrophil and its lineage9. As a G-CSF analog, this drug controls the proliferation of committed progenitor cells and influences their maturation into mature neutrophils. Filgrastim also stimulates the release of neutrophils from bone marrow storage pools and decreases their time to maturation. Filgrastim acts to increase the phagocytic activity of mature neutrophils, thus allowing them to prevent infection. In patients receiving cytotoxic chemotherapy, filgrastim may accelerate neutrophil recovery, leading to a reduction in the duration of the neutropenic phase post chemotherapy Label. Used in the treatment of chemotherapy-induced neutropenia by enhancing the production of neutrophils, filgrastim acts on hematopoietic cells by binding to specific cell surface receptors, thereby stimulating proliferation, differentiation, commitment, and end cell functional activation. In one efficacy study, levels of neutrophils returned to baseline by 21 days following completion of chemotherapy and the administration of tbo-filgrastim (fast-acting) 10. In phase 1 studies involving 96 patients with various non-myeloid malignancies‚ filgrastim administration resulted in a dose-dependent increase in circulating neutrophil counts over the dose range of 1 to 70 mcg/kg/day.  This increase in neutrophil counts was seen whether filgrastim was administered intravenous (1 to 70 mcg/kg twice daily)‚ subcutaneous (1 to 3 mcg/kg once daily)‚ or by continuous subcutaneous (SC) infusion (3 to 11 mcg/kg/day). After the discontinuation of filgrastim therapy‚ neutrophil counts returned to baseline in most cases within only 4 days after Nevistym was used Label. Absorption and clearance of Neupogen follows first-order pharmacokinetics without concentration dependence.
Subcutaneous administration of 3.45 mcg/kg and 11.5 mcg/kg of filgrastim resulted in maximum serum concentrations of 4 and 49 ng/mL‚ respectively‚ within 2-8 hours Label. Filgrastim does not accumulate. It is estimated that when filgrastim is subcutaneously administered, the absolute bioavailability is approximately 62% and 71% for 375 mcg and 750 mcg doses respectively. When 5 mcg/kg tbo-filgrastim is subcutaneously administered, the absolute bioavailability is 33%. It takes 4-6 hours for tho-filgrastim to reach maximum concentration 10. 150 mL/kg Label Filgrastim products demonstrate nonlinear pharmacokinetics. The clearance is dependent on filgrastim product concentration in addition to neutrophil count. G-CSF receptor-mediated clearance is saturated by a high concentration of filgrastim products and is diminished by neutropenia. In addition, filgrastim products are cleared by the kidney 9. Elimination half-life was approximately 3.5 hours in both normal subjects and cancer subjects Label 0.5 - 0.7 mL/minute/kg after SC administration of 3.45 mcg/kg and 11.5 mcg/kg in both normal subjects and cancer patients Label There are numerous adverse effects associated with Filgastrim. They are organized by organ system as follows: Generalized effects Serious allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis: Permanently discontinue NIVESTYM in patients with serious allergic reactions.
With non-myeloid malignancies receiving myelosuppressive anti-cancer drugs (≥ 5% difference in incidence compared to placebo) are pyrexia, pain, rash, cough, and dyspnea Label. With AML (≥ 2% difference in incidence) are pain, epistaxis and rash Label. With severe chronic neutropenia (SCN) (≥ 5% difference in incidence) are pain, anemia, epistaxis, diarrhea, hypoesthesia, and alopecia Label. Musculoskeletal system Exacerbation of arthritic symptoms has been uncommonly observed 9. Spleen Fatal splenic rupture: Evaluate patients who report left upper abdominal or shoulder pain for an enlarged spleen or splenic rupture. Cases of splenomegaly and splenic rupture have been reported uncommonly following administration of filgrastim. Some cases of splenic rupture were fatal Label. Respiratory system Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS): Evaluate patients who develop fever and lung infiltrates or respiratory distress for ARDS. Discontinue filgrastim in patients with ARDS Label. Pulmonary adverse effects, in particular interstitial lung disease, have been reported after G-CSF administration. Patients with a recent history of lung infiltrates or pneumonia may be at higher risk. The onset of pulmonary signs, such as cough, fever and dyspnea in association with radiological signs of pulmonary infiltrates and deterioration in pulmonary function may be preliminary signs of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Filgrastim should be discontinued and appropriate treatment should be given 9. Hematological system Fatal sickle cell crises have occurred.  The granulocyte-colony stimulating factor can promote the malignant growth of myeloid cells in vitro and the same effects may be seen on some non-myeloid cells in vitro. The safety and efficacy of filgrastim administration in patients with myelodysplastic syndrome, or chronic myelogenous leukemia have not been established. Filgrastim is not indicated for use in these conditions. Particular care should be taken to distinguish the diagnosis of blast transformation of chronic myeloid leukemia from acute myeloid leukemia 9. Capillary leak syndrome has been reported after granulocyte colony-stimulating factor administration, and is characterised by hypotension, hypoalbuminaemia, edema and hemoconcentration. Patients who show symptoms of capillary leak syndrome must be closely monitored and receive standard symptomatic treatment, which may include a need for intensive care 9. Leukocytosis (white blood cell (WBC) > 50 x 109/l) was seen in 41% of donors and transient thrombocytopenia (platelets < 100 x 109/l) following filgrastim and leukapheresis was observed in 35% of donors 9. Renal system This drug increases the risk of glomerulonephritis. Evaluate and consider dose-reduction or interruption
Insulin degludec | DrugBank Online Insulin degludec is an ultra-long-acting form of insulin used for the treatment of hyperglycemia caused by Type 1 and Type 2 Diabetes. Insulin is typically prescribed for the management of diabetes mellitus to mimic the activity of endogenously produced human insulin, a peptide hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas that promotes glucose metabolism. Insulin is released from the pancreas following a meal to promote the uptake of glucose from the blood into internal organs and tissues such as the liver, fat cells, and skeletal muscle. Absorption of glucose into cells allows for its transformation into glycogen or fat for storage. Insulin also inhibits hepatic glucose production, enhances protein synthesis, and inhibits lipolysis and proteolysis among many other functions. Insulin is an important treatment in the management of Type 1 Diabetes (T1D) which is caused by an autoimmune reaction that destroys the beta cells of the pancreas, resulting in the body not being able to produce or synthesize the insulin needed to manage circulating blood sugar levels. As a result, people with T1D rely primarily on exogenous forms of insulin, such as insulin degludec, to lower glucose levels in the blood. Insulin is also used in the treatment of Type 2 Diabetes (T2D), another form of diabetes mellitus that is a slowly progressing metabolic disorder caused by a combination of genetic and lifestyle factors that promote chronically elevated blood sugar levels. Without treatment or improvement in non-pharmacological measures such as diet and exercise to lower blood glucose, high blood sugar eventually causes cellular resistance to endogenous insulin, and in the long term, damage to pancreatic islet cells. Insulin is typically prescribed later in the course of T2D, after several oral medications such as Metformin, Gliclazide, or Sitagliptin have been tried, when sufficient damage has been caused to pancreatic cells that the body is no longer able to produce insulin on its own.  Marketed as the brand name product Tresiba, insulin degludec has a duration of action up to 42 hours allowing for once-daily dosing, typically at bedtime. Due to its duration of action, Tresiba is considered "basal insulin" as it provides low concentrations of background insulin that can keep blood sugar stable between meals or overnight. Basal insulin is often combined with short-acting "bolus insulin" such as Insulin lispro, Insulin glulisine, or Insulin aspart to provide higher doses of insulin required following meals. Use of basal and bolus insulin together is intended to mimic the pancreas' production of endogenous insulin, with a goal of avoiding any periods of hypoglycemia. Compared to endogenous insulin, insulin degludec has an added hexadecanedioic acid on lysine at the B29 position which allows for the formation of multi-hexamers. When injected subcutaneously, these multi-hexamers form a drug depot store from which monomers are slowly and continuously absorbed into the circulation. As a result, Insulin Degludec has a protracted time action profile due to the delayed absorption from subcutaneous tissue depots into the systemic circulation. Compared to available long-acting analogues such as Insulin glargine and Insulin detemir, which have a duration of action of 20-24 hours, insulin degludec provides a consistent level of basal insulin over 42 hours with a low peak:trough ratio. Limitations of shorter acting analogues include more frequent dosing and less stable pharmacokinetics, which may negatively impact patient adherence and glucose control, particularly nocturnal control. Without an adequate supply of insulin to promote absorption of glucose from the bloodstream, blood sugar levels can climb to dangerously high levels and can result in symptoms such as fatigue, headache, blurred vision, and increased thirst. If left untreated, the body starts to break down fat, instead of glucose, for energy which results in a build-up of ketone acids in the blood and a syndrome called ketoacidosis, which is a life-threatening medical emergency. In the long term, elevated blood sugar levels increase the risk of heart attack, stroke, and diabetic neuropathy. Insulin Degludec was approved by the FDA in September 2015 as the product Tresiba, for use in providing glycemic control to adults with diabetes mellitus. Insulin degludec is indicated to improve glycemic control in patients 1 year of age and older with diabetes mellitus. Insulin is a natural hormone produced by beta cells of the pancreas. In non-diabetic individuals, the pancreas produces a continuous supply of low levels of basal insulin along with spikes of insulin following meals. Increased insulin secretion following meals is responsible for the metabolic changes that occur as the body transitions from a postabsorptive to absorptive state. Insulin promotes cellular uptake of glucose, particularly in muscle and adipose tissues, promotes energy storage via glycogenesis, opposes catabolism of energy stores, increases DNA replication and protein synthesis by stimulating amino acid uptake by the liver, muscle and adipose tissue, and modifies the activity of numerous enzymes involved in glycogen synthesis and glycolysis. Insulin also promotes growth and is required for the actions of growth hormone (e.g. protein synthesis, cell division, DNA synthesis). Insulin detemir is a long-acting insulin analogue with a flat and predictable action profile. It is used to mimic the basal levels of insulin in diabetic individuals. The onset of action of insulin detemir is 1 to 2 hours and its duration of action is up to 24 hours. Interestingly, it has a lower affinity (30%) for the insulin receptor than human insulin. Insulin detemir binds to the insulin receptor (IR), a heterotetrameric protein consisting of two extracellular alpha units and two transmembrane beta units. The binding of insulin to the alpha subunit of IR stimulates the tyrosine kinase activity intrinsic to the beta subunit of the receptor. The bound receptor autophosphorylates and phosphorylates numerous intracellular substrates such as insulin receptor substrates (IRS) proteins, Cbl, APS, Shc and Gab 1. Activation of these proteins leads to the activation of downstream signalling molecules including PI3 kinase and Akt. Akt regulates the activity of glucose transporter 4 (GLUT4) and protein kinase C (PKC), both of which play critical roles in metabolism and catabolism. In patients with type 1 diabetes, after 8 days of once daily subcutaneous dosing with 0.4 U/kg, maximum degludec concentrations of 4472 pmol/L were attained at a median of 9 hours (tmax). After the first dose of, median onset of appearance was around one hour. The glucose lowering effect lasted at least 42 hours after the last of 8 once-daily injections. Insulin degludec concentration reach steady state levels after 3-4 days. The affinity of insulin degludec to serum albumin corresponds to a plasma protein binding of >99% in human plasma. The results of the in vitro protein binding studies demonstrate that there is no clinically relevant interaction between insulin degludec and other protein bound drugs. All insulin degludec metabolites are inactive. The half-life after subcutaneous administration is determined primarily by the rate of absorption from the subcutaneous tissue. On average, the half-life at steady state is approximately 25 hours independent of dose. The mean apparent clearance of insulin degludec is 0.03 L/kg (2.1 L/h in 70 kg individual) after single subcutaneous dose of 0.4 units/kg. Observe for signs and symptoms of hypoglycemia, hypokalemia, and fluid retention and heart failure with concomitant use of Thiazolidinediones.
Human papillomavirus type 6 L1 capsid protein antigen | DrugBank Online Human papillomavirus type 6 L1 capsid protein antigen is contained in Gardasil, or a recombinant Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, and 18) vaccine for intramuscular injection. It is an immunization for young men and women 9-26 years of age for the prevention of diseases caused by Human Papillomavirus (HPV) types 6, 11, 16 and 18.
Human papillomavirus type 11 L1 capsid protein antigen | DrugBank Online Human papillomavirus type 11 L1 capsid protein antigen is contained in Gardasil, or a recombinant Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, and 18) vaccine for intramuscular injection. It is an immunization for young men and women 9-26 years of age for the prevention of diseases caused by Human Papillomavirus (HPV) types 6, 11, 16 and 18.
Human papillomavirus type 16 L1 capsid protein antigen | DrugBank Online Human papillomavirus type 16 L1 capsid protein antigen is contained in Gardasil, or a recombinant Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, and 18) vaccine for intramuscular injection. It is an immunization for young men and women 9-26 years of age for the prevention of diseases caused by Human Papillomavirus (HPV) types 6, 11, 16 and 18.
Human papillomavirus type 18 L1 capsid protein antigen | DrugBank Online Human papillomavirus type 18 L1 capsid protein antigen is contained in Gardasil, or a recombinant Human Papillomavirus Quadrivalent (Types 6, 11, 16, and 18) vaccine for intramuscular injection. It is an immunization for young men and women 9-26 years of age for the prevention of diseases caused by Human Papillomavirus (HPV) types 6, 11, 16 and 18.
Hepatitis B Vaccine (Recombinant) | DrugBank Online Hepatitis B Vaccine is an ingredient in the EMA-withdrawn product Quintanrix. It is marketed in Canada as Engerix B. It is also a part of Twinrix (Hep A/Hep B vaccine) available also in Canada.
The hepatitis B virus induces a severe form of viral hepatitis. Other causative agents are hepatitis A virus, and the non-A, non-B hepatitis viruses. Hepatitis D virus, a defective virus requiring the “keeper function” of the hepatitis B virus, occurs either as a co-infection or super-infection in a HBsAg carrier. Transmission of the virus occurs through percutaneous contact with contaminated blood, serum or plasma. Infection may also occur by the exposure of mucous surfaces, or intact or damaged skin to other body fluids such as saliva, mucosal secretions and semen. There is no specific treatment for hepatitis. The incubation period may be as long as 6 months, followed by a very complex clinical course of an acute or chronic nature, often leading to hospitalization. Viral hepatitis caused by hepatitis B virus is a major worldwide health problem, though the incidence and epidemiology vary widely among geographical areas and population subgroups. In Canada, the United States and Northern Europe, 4% to 6% of the population are infected during their lifetime (mostly young adults); between 5% and 10% of infections lead to persistent viremia (carrier state). Certain population subgroups in these areas, however, are at high risk (see Indications and Clinical Use). In Asia, infection often occurs early in life, leading to a hepatitis B marker prevalence of more than 70% in the general population and a carrier rate of up to 20%. It is estimated that the reservoir of persistent hepatitis B surface antigen carriers amounts to 350 million people worldwide. Carriers are at a high risk of developing chronic liver disease which may lead to cirrhosis or primary hepatocellular carcinoma. A significant reduction in the incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma has been observed in children aged 6 to14 years following a nationwide hepatitis B vaccination in Taiwan. This resulted from a significant decline in the prevalence of hepatitis B antigen, the persistence of which is an essential factor in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma. Vaccination against hepatitis B is expected in the long term to reduce the overall incidence of both hepatitis B and the chronic complications such as chronic active hepatitis and cirrhosis. Active immunization against hepatitis B virus infection. The vaccine will not protect against infection caused by hepatitis A and non-A non-B hepatitis viruses. As hepatitis D (caused by the delta agent) does not occur in the absence of hepatitis B infection or carrier state, it can be expected that hepatitis D will also be prevented by vaccination with hepatitis B virus vaccine. The vaccine can be administered at any age from birth onwards. It may be used to start a primary course of vaccination or as a booster dose. It may also be used to complete a primary course of vaccination started with plasma-derived or yeast-derived vaccines or as a booster dose in subjects who have previously received a primary course of vaccination with plasma-derived or yeast-derived vaccines. In areas of low prevalence of hepatitis B, vaccination is strongly recommended in subjects who are at increased risk of infection. These include the following groups: ENGERIX-B induces specific humoral antibodies against the surface antigen of hepatitis B virus (anti-HBs antibodies). An anti-HBs antibody titre above 10 IU/l correlates with protection to HBV infection. ENGERIX®-B induces specific humoral antibodies against HBsAg (anti-HBs antibodies). It is generally accepted that an anti-HBs titre greater than 10 IU/L correlates with protection against hepatitis B virus infection. More than 90% of healthy adults, children and neonates developed protective anti-HBs titres one month after completing a
Hepatitis A Vaccine | DrugBank Online Hepatitis A viral infection can lead to significant morbidity and mortality, with signs and symptoms that include anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and liver failure.1 Known by several trade names, such as Havrix and Twinrix, the Hepatitis A vaccine has been formulated for immunization against hepatitis A virus (HAV) infection and safely confers strong protection against the disease caused by infection with this virus.2,7 In the US, the approved vaccine is inactivated while live Hepatitis A vaccines are currently available in other countries.10 Hepatitis A vaccine is indicated for immunization against hepatitis A virus (HAV) infection in patients aged 12 months and older, and the first dose should be administered at least 2 weeks before expected exposure to the Hepatitis A virus.7 Hepatitis A vaccine stimulates the immune-mediated production of anti-Hepatitis A antibodies, allowing for protection against Hepatitis A infection via the production of specific antibodies against the virus and other immune cells that prevent infection with Hepatitis A virus.6,7 The administration of the hepatitis A vaccine leads to immune activation of lymphocytes, which proceed to engulf the hepatitis A antigen, leading to the release of inflammatory mediators that stimulate B and T cells to attack the viral antigen. Following this stimulation, the B cells and T cells then differentiate into memory cells, antibody-producing B cells, cytotoxic T cells, and helper T cells to provide immunity against infection with Hepatitis A.7 LD50 information for the hepatitis A vaccine is not readily available in the literature.
Dermatophagoides farinae | DrugBank Online Dermatophagoides farinae extracts are sterile solutions used for intradermal testing or subcutaneous immunotherapy. This combination is approved for as a year-round, once-a-day tablet that's dissolved under the tongue as a treatment for dust mite allergies. Dermatophagoides farinae extract is an allergen extract indicated as immunotherapy for house dust mite (HDM)-induced allergic rhinitis, with or without conjunctivitis, confirmed by in vitro testing for IgE antibodies to Dermatophagoidesfarinae house dust mites, or skin testing to licensed house dust mite allergen extracts. ODACTRA is approved for use in adults 18 through 65 years of age Treatment with ACTAIR has been shown to induce a systemic antibody response towards house dust mite allergens, with an increase in specific IgG4 antibodies in some patients. These immunoglobulins may compete with IgE for allergen binding, thereby decreasing allergen capture and presentation. The complete mechanisms of allergen immunotherapy are not clear and remain the subject of investigation. The allergic reaction is dependent on the presence of allergen-specific immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies that are bound to specific receptors on mast cells and basophils. The presence of IgE antibodies sensitizes these cells, and upon interaction with the appropriate allergens, histamine and other mediators are released which produce local or systemic responses in sensitive individuals, and characteristic symptoms of atopic diseases, such as allergic rhinitis and allergic asthma. Changes in serum antibody and T-lymphocyte responses resulting from immunotherapy have been demonstrated, and these changes often correlate closely with clinical (symptom) improvements. Specific mechanisms may vary depending on the nature of the allergic disease, the allergenic specificities of patients and populations, extract formulations, route of administration, dose and duration of treatment.
Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus | DrugBank Online Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus extracts are sterile solutions used for intradermal testing or subcutaneous immunotherapy. This combination is approved for as a year-round, once-a-day tablet that's dissolved under the tongue as a treatment for dust mite allergies. Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus is an allergen extract indicated as immunotherapy for house dust mite (HDM)-induced allergic rhinitis, with or without conjunctivitis, confirmed by in vitro testing for IgE antibodies to Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus house dust mites, or skin testing to licensed house dust mite allergen extracts. Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus is approved for use in adults 18 through 65 years of age.  Treatment with ACTAIR has been shown to induce a systemic antibody response towards house dust mite allergens, with an increase in specific IgG4 antibodies in some patients. These immunoglobulins may compete with IgE for allergen binding, thereby decreasing allergen capture and presentation. The complete mechanisms of allergen immunotherapy are not clear and remain the subject of investigation. The allergic reaction is dependent on the presence of allergen-specific immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies that are bound to specific receptors on mast cells and basophils. The presence of IgE antibodies sensitizes these cells, and upon interaction with the appropriate allergens, histamine and other mediators are released which produce local or systemic responses in sensitive individuals, and characteristic symptoms of atopic diseases, such as allergic rhinitis and allergic asthma. Changes in serum antibody and T-lymphocyte responses resulting from immunotherapy have been demonstrated, and these changes often correlate closely with clinical (symptom) improvements. Specific mechanisms may vary depending on the nature of the allergic disease, the allergenic specificities of patients and populations, extract formulations, route of administration, dose and duration of treatment.
Foreskin keratinocyte (neonatal) | DrugBank Online Skin, the largest organ of the human body, plays the main role in protecting the body from mechanical damage. It is composed of epidermal, dermal and hypodermal layers. The barrier function of the skin owed to its avascular epidermal layer, which is made mainly of keratinocytes. The keratinocytes form a stratified epithelium, with growing basal cells at the innermost layer and the keratinized, and mostly impermeable outer stratum corneum layer on the surface 3. Foreskin keratinocytes are a form of skin cells that are cultured as a skin cell replacement for wounds, to accelerate wound closure and healing 1, 11.  The defining moment in skin culture was in 1975 when Rheinwald and Green successfully grew human keratinocytes on lethally irradiated murine fibroblasts. In 1981, O’Conner and his group utilized cultured autologous epithelium to coat burn defects for the first time. To construct a "living" alternative, a dermal substitute based on collagen I gel was created with mesenchymal cells such as fibroblasts. When an epidermal layer was added, this approach became known as "skin equivalent", "composite culture" or "organotypical culture" 4. Foreskin keratinocytes are an important ingredient in several skin substitutes 11, used for various indications.
Keratinocytes are derived from neonatal foreskins and used to create a drug called Apligraf, a mixture of Foreskin fibroblast (neonatal) and keratinocytes. A gel made of bovine collagen is used as the matrix for cell growth and differentiation. Apligraf has been useful in the treatment of venous leg ulcers and diabetic foot ulcers, by increasing rates of wound healing and decreasing the time required for closure of wounds 3. Orcel, another skin substitute, is similar to Apligraf since it contains both fibroblasts and keratinocytes derived from neonatal foreskin, but in addition, utilizes a type I collagen sponge as its matrix. It is used for grafting onto partial-thickness wounds, where it offers a favorable matrix for host cell migration 3. For chronic leg ulcers and diabetic foot 8.  Orcel is indicated for use with standard therapeutic compression for the treatment of non-infected partial and full-thickness skin ulcers due to venous insufficiency of greater than 1 month in duration and which have not effectively responded to conventional ulcer therapy. Orcel is also for use with standard diabetic foot ulcer care for the treatment of full-thickness neuropathic diabetic foot ulcers of greater than 3 weeks in duration which have not effectively responded to conventional ulcer therapy, and which extend through the dermis but without tendon, muscle, capsule or bone involvement 10. Foreskin keratinocyte grafts lead to the re‐epithelialization of partial deep severe burns, thus allowing complete wound closure, and improves the condition of scars 5. Foreskin keratinocytes promote the proliferation of epithelial (skin) cells.
Hepatitis A Vaccine | DrugBank Online Hepatitis A viral infection can lead to significant morbidity and mortality, with signs and symptoms that include anorexia, nausea, vomiting, and liver failure.1 Known by several trade names, such as Havrix and Twinrix, the Hepatitis A vaccine has been formulated for immunization against hepatitis A virus (HAV) infection and safely confers strong protection against the disease caused by infection with this virus.2,7 In the US, the approved vaccine is inactivated while live Hepatitis A vaccines are currently available in other countries.10 Hepatitis A vaccine is indicated for immunization against hepatitis A virus (HAV) infection in patients aged 12 months and older, and the first dose should be administered at least 2 weeks before expected exposure to the Hepatitis A virus.7 Hepatitis A vaccine stimulates the immune-mediated production of anti-Hepatitis A antibodies, allowing for protection against Hepatitis A infection via the production of specific antibodies against the virus and other immune cells that prevent infection with Hepatitis A virus.6,7 The administration of the hepatitis A vaccine leads to immune activation of lymphocytes, which proceed to engulf the hepatitis A antigen, leading to the release of inflammatory mediators that stimulate B and T cells to attack the viral antigen. Following this stimulation, the B cells and T cells then differentiate into memory cells, antibody-producing B cells, cytotoxic T cells, and helper T cells to provide immunity against infection with Hepatitis A.7 LD50 information for the hepatitis A vaccine is not readily available in the literature.
Hepatitis B Vaccine (Recombinant) | DrugBank Online Hepatitis B Vaccine is an ingredient in the EMA-withdrawn product Quintanrix. It is marketed in Canada as Engerix B. It is also a part of Twinrix (Hep A/Hep B vaccine) available also in Canada.
The hepatitis B virus induces a severe form of viral hepatitis. Other causative agents are hepatitis A virus, and the non-A, non-B hepatitis viruses. Hepatitis D virus, a defective virus requiring the “keeper function” of the hepatitis B virus, occurs either as a co-infection or super-infection in a HBsAg carrier. Transmission of the virus occurs through percutaneous contact with contaminated blood, serum or plasma. Infection may also occur by the exposure of mucous surfaces, or intact or damaged skin to other body fluids such as saliva, mucosal secretions and semen. There is no specific treatment for hepatitis. The incubation period may be as long as 6 months, followed by a very complex clinical course of an acute or chronic nature, often leading to hospitalization. Viral hepatitis caused by hepatitis B virus is a major worldwide health problem, though the incidence and epidemiology vary widely among geographical areas and population subgroups. In Canada, the United States and Northern Europe, 4% to 6% of the population are infected during their lifetime (mostly young adults); between 5% and 10% of infections lead to persistent viremia (carrier state). Certain population subgroups in these areas, however, are at high risk (see Indications and Clinical Use). In Asia, infection often occurs early in life, leading to a hepatitis B marker prevalence of more than 70% in the general population and a carrier rate of up to 20%. It is estimated that the reservoir of persistent hepatitis B surface antigen carriers amounts to 350 million people worldwide. Carriers are at a high risk of developing chronic liver disease which may lead to cirrhosis or primary hepatocellular carcinoma. A significant reduction in the incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma has been observed in children aged 6 to14 years following a nationwide hepatitis B vaccination in Taiwan. This resulted from a significant decline in the prevalence of hepatitis B antigen, the persistence of which is an essential factor in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma. Vaccination against hepatitis B is expected in the long term to reduce the overall incidence of both hepatitis B and the chronic complications such as chronic active hepatitis and cirrhosis. Active immunization against hepatitis B virus infection. The vaccine will not protect against infection caused by hepatitis A and non-A non-B hepatitis viruses. As hepatitis D (caused by the delta agent) does not occur in the absence of hepatitis B infection or carrier state, it can be expected that hepatitis D will also be prevented by vaccination with hepatitis B virus vaccine. The vaccine can be administered at any age from birth onwards. It may be used to start a primary course of vaccination or as a booster dose. It may also be used to complete a primary course of vaccination started with plasma-derived or yeast-derived vaccines or as a booster dose in subjects who have previously received a primary course of vaccination with plasma-derived or yeast-derived vaccines. In areas of low prevalence of hepatitis B, vaccination is strongly recommended in subjects who are at increased risk of infection. These include the following groups: ENGERIX-B induces specific humoral antibodies against the surface antigen of hepatitis B virus (anti-HBs antibodies). An anti-HBs antibody titre above 10 IU/l correlates with protection to HBV infection. ENGERIX®-B induces specific humoral antibodies against HBsAg (anti-HBs antibodies). It is generally accepted that an anti-HBs titre greater than 10 IU/L correlates with protection against hepatitis B virus infection. More than 90% of healthy adults, children and neonates developed protective anti-HBs titres one month after completing a
Polyvinyl alcohol | DrugBank Online Polyvinyl alcohol is a water-soluble synthetic polymer obtained by polymerization of vinyl alcohol. It has varying roles in commercial and industrial applications such as papermaking, textiles, and printing. Polyvinyl alcohol is found in ophthalmic solutions as a lubricant to prevent irritation or to relieve dryness of the eyes 4. For use as a lubricant to prevent further irritation or to relieve dryness of the eye(s) 6. Temporarily relieves burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye or from exposure to wind or sun.
Lubricates the eyes and helps protect against further eye irritation/dryness 7.  As a synthetic resin with hydrophilic properties, it increases the persistence of tear film and therefore lubricates and soothes dry/irritated eyes 9. Polyvinyl alcohol is poorly absorbed from gastrointestinal tract, and readily eliminated from the body 5. This drug does not accumulate in the body when administered orally 1. When injected intravenously, polyvinyl alcohol has a half-life of 90 min 2. Intraocularly, in eye drop form, the half-life is 7.2 minutes 3. The oral acute toxicity of PVOH (LD50) in rats and mice are 20 g/kg and 14.7 g/kg, respectively 5.
Octisalate | DrugBank Online Also known as Ethylhexyl Salicylate. Octyl salicylate is an oil soluble chemical sunscreen agent that absorbs UVB radiation. It does not protect against UVA. Octyl salicylate is used to augment the UVB protection in a sunscreen. Salicylates are weak UVB absorbers and they are generally used in combination with other UV filters. Octyl salicylate appears to have a good safety profile. It covers wavelength in the range 295-315 nm, peak at 307-310 nm.  It is an ester of salicylic acid and 2-ethylhexanol. The salicylate portion of the molecule absorbs ultraviolet light to protect skin from the harmful effects of exposure to sunlight, while the ethylhexanol portion functions as an emollient. Ingredient in sunscreens for protection against damage effects of sun light, provides protection from sunburns, aging and skin cancer.  Data not found.  Chemical sunscreen, it acts through absorption of UVB light and not UVA.  Intended for local use only, no systemic absorption.  Intended for local use only, no systemic absorption.  Intended for local use only, no systemic absorption.  Intended for local use only, no systemic absorption.  Intended for local use only, no systemic absorption.  Intended for local use only, no systemic absorption.  Intended for local use only, no systemic absorption.  LD50, (oral, rat): > 5000 mg/Kg.
Polysorbate 80 | DrugBank Online Polysorbate, a substance formulated by the reaction of sorbitan fatty acid ester (a nonionic surfactant) with ethylene oxide, is used in many foreign countries, including the U.S. and the EU, where it acts as an emulsifier, a solubilizer in many foods, including bread, cake mix, salad dressing, shortening oil and chocolate 18. Polysorbate 80 is a hydrophilic nonionic surfactant. It is utilized as a surfactant in soaps and cosmetics and also as a lubricant in eye drops. In food or pharmaceutical products, it can act as an emulsifier. Polysorbate 80 is an excipient that is used to stabilize aqueous formulations of medications for parenteral administration or vaccinations.15 A solubilizing agent acts as a surfactant and increases the solubility of one agent in another. A substance that would not normally dissolve in a particular solution is able to dissolve with the use of a solubilizing agent.15 It is also known as an emulsifier, which helps ingredients mix together and prevent separation, and water-containing small amounts of salts, and is included in several vaccines licensed in the USA.9 It is used as a solubilizer, antimicrobial preservative and disinfectant 16. Polysorbates are widely used to protect biological drug products from protein unfolding, aggregation, and precipitation during both shipping and handling. The polysorbates are amphipathic, nonionic surfactants made of fatty acid esters of polyoxyethylene sorbitan. Polysorbate 80 is one of the most common surfactants currently used in the formulation of protein-based biopharmaceuticals 6. Polysorbate 80 is one of the primary components of protein formulations. This drug inhibits interfacial damage of the protein molecule that undergoes mechanical stress during shipping and handling. Polysorbate 80 also affects the formulation photostability. Exposure to light of polysorbate 80 aqueous solution results in peroxide generation, which in turn may lead to oxidation of the susceptible amino acid residues in the protein molecule 6. One study on rats found that Polysorbate 80 increased apical to basolateral membrane permeability of digoxin in Caco-2 cells suggesting that Ps 80 is an in vitro inhibitor of P-glycoprotein. It concluded that PS 80 may influence in vivo absorption of P-gp substrates, and this could be translated to human applications 5. Poorly absorbed 18. Polysorbates undergo degradation by auto-oxidation, producing reactive peroxides, in addition to hydrolysis 13.
Doconexent | DrugBank Online A mixture of fish oil and primrose oil, doconexent is used as a high-docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) supplement. DHA is a 22 carbon chain with 6 cis double bonds with anti-inflammatory effects. It can be biosythesized from alpha-linolenic acid or commercially manufactured from microalgae. It is an omega-3 fatty acid and primary structural component of the human brain, cerebral cortex, skin, and retina thus plays an important role in their development and function. The amino-phospholipid DHA is found at a high concentration across several brain subcellular fractions, including nerve terminals, microsomes, synaptic vesicles, and synaptosomal plasma membranes 10. Used as a high-docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) oral supplement.  DHA in the central nervous system is found in the phospholipid bilayers where it modulates the physical environment and increase the free volume within the membrane bilayer. It influences the G-protein coupled receptor activity and affects transmembrane transport and cell interaction with the exterior world. It is also reported to promote apoptosis, neuronal differentiation and ion channel activity. Like other polyunsaturated fatty acids, DHA acts as a ligand at PPARs that plays an anti-inflammatory effect and regulate inflammatory gene expression and NFκB activation. DHA also gives rise to resolvins and related compounds (e.g., protectins) through pathways involving cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase enzymes to resolve the inflammatory responses.  DHA and its conversion to other lipid signalling moleccules compete with the arachidonic acid cascade from endogenous phospholipids and shift the inflammatory state to being more anti-inflammatory. DHA inhibits endotoxin-stimulated production of IL-6 and IL-8 in human endothelial cells. Derivatives of DHA are anti-inflammatory lipid mediators. Lipid mediators resolvin D1 and protectin D1 all inhibit transendothelial migration of neutrophils, so preventing neutrophilic infiltration at sites of inflammation, resolvin D1 inhibits IL-1β production, and protectin D1 inhibits TNF and IL-1β production 1. Monoxydroxy derivative of DHA converted by LOX inhibit thromboxane-induced platelet aggregation. DHA supplementation has also shown to reduce the levels of serum C-reactive protein (CRP) and other circulating markers of inflammation such as neutrophils in hypertriglyceridemic men 12.
DHA acts as a ligand at peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma and alpha that regulate lipid signalling molecule-mediated transduction pathways and modulate inflammation.
Dimethicone | DrugBank Online Dimethicone is a silicone oil that is also known as polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS). It has viscoelastic properties. Dimethicone is used as a surfactant, antifoaming agent, carminative in various products such as medical devices, food products, and lubricants. It is used in a number of health and beauty products including hair care products such as shampoo, conditioner, leave-in conditioner, and de-tangling products. On skin, it is also observed to have moisturizing actions 6,8. A study found that that the 100 % dimethicone product is a safe and highly effective head lice treatment for children and may serve as less toxic and less resistance-prone alternative to pesticide-containing products 3. Dimethicone is a colorless liquid with both cosmetic and therapeutic uses. It is used in topical creams and ointments to help distribute the active ingredients. Dimethicone is used as an anti-foaming agent, a hair and skin conditioner, and in the treatment of head lice and, as an anti-bloating/anti-flatulence agent 2, 7. This drug acts as a skin protectant by helping to treat and prevent minor skin irritation due to diaper rash and seals out moisture from the diaper area. This drug temporarily protects and helps prevent chafed, chapped, cracked or windburned skin. 7. When applied topically, dimethicone forms a layer to delay the evaporation of water 8.
Dextran 70 | DrugBank Online Dextran is a polysaccharide that differs from others in that its glucose units are joined together 1:6 glucoside links. The main chain of glucose has short branches at frequent intervals which are probably joined by 1:3 and 1:4 glucoside links. The chains can be composed of about 200,000 glucose units.2 Many bacteria, like Leuconostoc, can synthesize dextran from sucrose, and this activity is used commercially to obtain dextran.5 Dextran 40 is a sterile, nonpyrogenic preparation of low molecular weight dextran (average mol. wt. 40,000) in 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. It is administered by intravenous infusion. Dextran 75 is a complex branched glucan with an average molecular weight 75000 Daltons. It is produced from certain bacteria that with α-1,6 glycosidic linkages between glucose molecules and α-1,3 linkages between branches. When labelled with technetium Tc99m, dextran 75 is intravenously administered as an imaging agent to detect and diagnose conditions in the vascular compartment such as pericardial effusion or ventricular aneurysm.
Polyethylene glycol 400 | DrugBank Online Polyethylene glycols (PEGs) are products made of condensed ethylene oxide and water that can contain various derivatives and have various functions. Because many PEG types are hydrophilic, they are favorably used as enhancers of penetration, and used heavily in topical dermatological preparations. PEGs, along with their many nonionic derivatives, are widely utilized in cosmetic products as surfactants, emulsifiers, cleansing agents, humectants, and skin conditioners.9 Polyethylene glycol 400 (PEG 400) is a low-molecular-weight grade of polyethylene glycol with a low-level toxicity. It is very hydrophilic, which renders it a useful ingredient in drug formulations to augment the solubility and bioavailability of weakly water-soluble drugs. It is used in ophthalmic solutions for the relief of burning, irritation and/or discomfort that follows dryness of the eye 7. PEG "400" indicates that the average molecular weight of the specific PEG is 400 10. PEGylation occurs when PEGs are attached to numerous protein medications, allowing for greater solubility for selected drugs. Examples of PEGylated medications are PEG-interferon alpha (Pegintron) and PEG-filgrastim. In addition, PEG is available as a bowel preparation for colonoscopy procedures and as a laxative 10. PEG-400 has been indicated for the temporary relief of burning and irritation due to dryness of the eye, and
for protection against further irritation and desiccation 14, 15, 16. PEG, when used as PEG-400 for eye lubrication provides relief of dry eye symptoms and prevents further irritation, thus protecting the eye from injury 15. PEG allows comfortable eye drop/natural tear instillation by offering improved spreading of the drop over the ocular surface with diminished blurring 14,15. PEG, depending on molecular weight, has various mechanisms of action 4, 5, 6, 7. For the purpose of Peg-400, the mechanism of action on the eye tissues will be the primary focus of discussion.  PEG-400 is considered a lacrimomimetic, or a synthetic ocular lubricant that improves one or more components of the lacrimal film by augmenting the tear volume and stability and by protecting the eye surface against desiccation 16. Hydroxypropyl-guar (HPG) is used along with polyethylene glycol 400 (PEG) and propylene glycol (PG) as a gelling agent that conforms to abnormalities of the tear film and existing irregularities on the ocular surface 16. PEG provides lubrication and acts as a surfactant by coating the eye and interacting with propylene glycol and other solutions that help to act as surfactants on the eye mucosa 15. This allows for long-lasting, soothing effects 15. Recent studies involving nanoparticle drug delivery have demonstrated that PEG can achieve sustained drug delivery. The delivery of drugs to mucosal surfaces is a significant challenge due to the presence of the protective mucus layer that acts to trap and quickly remove foreign particles. Nanoparticles designed to rapidly cross mucosal barriers (mucus-penetrating particles, “MPP”) have proven promising for augmenting drug distribution, and efficacy at various mucosal surfaces. Mucus- penetrating particles are heavily coated with polyethylene glycol (PEG), protecting the nanoparticle core from adhesion with mucus 17. Polyethylene glycol, when free in solution, may also demonstrate attraction to the surfaces of various types of vesicles, cells or macromolecules, leading to polymer adsorption and subsequently either a repulsion or to an attraction, via bridging, of the surfaces or vesicles—again strongly depending on the temperature, molecular weight, and concentration of the polyethylene glycol. Low molecular weight polyethylene glycol (such as PEG-400) generally promotes cells or vesicles to adhere (depletion attraction), high molecular weight polyethylene glycol causes them to repel 18. PEG has low toxicity profile with an absorption of less than 0.5% 10. Topical absorption of PEG occurs and, demonstrates a molecular weight dependence similar to that of PEG given orally. Absorption by this route is likely to be poor 12. Despite that fact that PEG is believed to be an excellent material to resist protein adsorption, there is a lack of quantitative evidence regarding interactions between proteins and PEG. A study has been performed that suggests that a large number of PEG molecules could associate with protein molecules 3. The metabolism of PEG involves the oxidation of the alcohol groups located on the PEG to a carboxylic acid. For example, the diacid and hydroxyl acid metabolites of PEG have been measured in the plasma and urine of burn patients and rabbits and in the bile of cats. In the isolated guinea pig liver and in rat/guinea pig in vitro, PEG has demonstrated to be sulfated. Evidence from experiments with PEG400 suggests that ethylene glycol is not formed as a metabolite of PEG in humans. Negligible amounts of oxalic acid are liberated after the metabolism of PEG 12. The first phase of metabolism of PEG in mammals is regulated by the enzyme alcohol dehydrogenase. Liver cytochorome P450 enzymes may also play a role in the oxidation of PEG, although the evidence for this is not clear 12. Also, PEG has been shown to be metabolized by sulfotransferase enzymes. Although there is evidence that PEG can be metabolized to various phase 1 and phase 2 metabolites, the toxicology data presented above indicate that these metabolites are of very little toxicological concern. However, metabolism of PEG to the acid metabolite(s) has been implicated in the acidosis and hypercalcemia observed in patients after overdose 12. It is clear that these metabolites can be formed in multiple toxicology species and that the phase 1 metabolites are seen in animals and humans. These data indicate that humans and animals will be exposed to similar metabolites after administration of PEG 12. metabolic clearance of PEG decreases markedly as molecular weight increases. For PEG400, up to 25% of the dose may be metabolized in humans (Schaffer et al., 1950); similar results are also seen in the rabbit 12. The absorption of PEG by the oral route is molecular weight- dependent. Urinary recovery data for PEG400 indicate that 50 to 60% of PEG with this molecular weight is absorbed from the intestine 12. In the case of PEG-400, up to 25% of the dose may be metabolized in humans. Similar results have also been obtained in studies on the rabbit 12. Human excretion studies have demonstrated that 86% and 96% of PEG1000 and 6000 were excreted in the urine 12 h after intravenous administration. Specific data on PEG-400 are not available 12. In rats, urine PEG undergoes biliary excretion, and this process is depending on molecular weight, with hepatic clearance reaching a minimum at about 50 kDa molecular mass (in mouse)12. Great than 24h 11. In mice, lease than <10 % of the administered dose was cleared by the liver 12.  PEG of different molecular weights by a range of routes has been studied extensively, and has not led to any major toxicities, and signs/symptoms of toxicity that do occur are only observed at a much higher than therapeutic dose 12. LD50 = 157000 mg/kg, intragastric, guinea pigs MSDS
LD50 = 28915 mg/kg, intragastric, mice, rats MSDS
LD50 = 9708 mg/kg, intra-abdominal, rats MSDS
Potassium nitrate | DrugBank Online Potassium nitrate is an inorganic salt with a chemical formula of KNO3. It is a natural source of nitrate and has been used as a constituent for several different purposes, including food preservatives, fertilizers, tree stump removal, rocket propellants, and fireworks. Potassium nitrate is a common active ingredient in toothpaste, exerting an anti-sensitivity action. It provides increasing protection against painful sensitivity of the teeth to cold, heat, acids, sweets or contact 13,14. In addition, potassium nitrate is used as a diuretic in pigs, cattle, and horses. It is administered orally doses up to 30 g per animal per day 7. For the relief of tooth sensitivity, and is also used as a pesticide, insecticide, as a food additive, and a rodenticide 10,13,16. The potassium cation is an essential electrolyte that is important for the maintenance of intracellular osmotic pressure and for the maintenance of cell membrane potential, in particular, the potential of electrically excitable tissues 7. It is a regular component of the diet and is particularly abundant in fruit and vegetables. The recommended daily intake varies from 350-1275 mg in children to 1875 and 5625 mg in adults. In the United Kingdom, the recommended intake is 3.5 g/day for healthy adults 7. Potassium ions are believed to disturb the synapse between nerve cells, thus decreasing nerve excitation and the associated pain 10. Potassium nitrates are ignitable fumigants also utilized as rodenticides and insecticides. They are added to other pesticide active ingredients (sulfur and carbon) and placed into fumigant gas cartridges, designed to be ignited and placed in pest-infested areas. The activated cartridge bombs release toxic gases which are lethal to select rodents, skunks, coyotes, and wasps 11. Potassium ions have demonstrated in animal studies to act directly on the nerves and to reduce sensory activity 10. Tooth hypersensitivity can be relieved by inactivating the intra-dental nerve and inhibiting neural transmission, using suitable medications 10. It has been found that potassium-to-sodium intake ratios are strongly related to cardiovascular disease risk than either nutrient alone. The data describing this relationship warrants further research for various target tissue endpoints 2. Potassium (K+) is the principal cation modulating the osmotic balance of the body fluids. In animals, the maintenance of normal cell volume and pressure is dependent on Na+ and K+ pumping 17. Potassium transport through the hydrophobic interior of a cell membrane may be facilitated by several naturally occurring compounds that form lipid-soluble alkali metal cation complexes. Potassium has the critical role of a calcium counter-ion for numerous carboxylates, phosphates, and sulfates, and also acts to stabilize macromolecular structures 17. Potassium is the primary agent for common, over the counter de-sensitizing toothpaste that prevents the transmission of nerve endings to the teeth. Potassium salts, including potassium nitrate, potassium chloride or potassium citrate work by diffusion across the dentinal tubules, causing depolarization of the nerve cells. In turn, these cells become unresponsive to excitatory stimuli. The effect of the potassium nitrate accumulates over time, and it may take several weeks for patients to notice improvement of pain symptoms 10. Potassium nitrates control pests using a unique mechanism of action. Rather than directly poisoning rodents, nitrates support the combustion of charcoal in gas cartridges, promoting the production of toxic gases, which, are lethal to the target pest. The environmental protection agency in the USA (EPA) is only minimally concerned about the risk of direct human exposure to sodium or potassium nitrates, rather than pesticide accidents--typically involving skin burns or inhalation of toxic gases 17. It is established that nitrate is quickly and almost entirely absorbed from the proximal and small intestine subsequent to ingestion in most animals, with little if any absorption from the stomach and lower intestine 13. The vast majority of intestinal K+ absorption occurs in the small intestine; the contribution of the normal colon to net K+ absorption and secretion is trivial 5. Nitrates are absorbed into the general blood circulation and are transported across the body. Radioactive tracer experiments have demonstrated that nitrates are distributed evenly among body organs, and their rate of distribution depends on blood flow 13. Nitrates are reduced to nitrites by the bacteria in saliva and the gastrointestinal system 13. The in vivo reduction of nitrates to nitrites depends on conditions that are subject to much variations such the volume and species of microflora present in the saliva/gastrointestinal tract, and stomach pH. Gastric pH is higher in infants younger than 6 months of age and during certain gastrointestinal tract infections, thereby favoring the reduction of nitrates 13. Nitrate is metabolized to a small extent. The biotransformation of potassium nitrate consists of nitrate reduction, nitrite formation, nitrite reoxidation to nitrate, and formation of methemoglobin or NO, in a dynamic equilibrium 11, 12, 13. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Nitrates are excreted in the urine primarily as inorganic nitrates 13. Acute oral toxicity (LD50): 1901 mg/kg in rabbits MSDS and 3750 mg/kg in rats 7. The primary acute toxic effect of nitrates is the development of methemoglobinemia, a condition in which greater than 10% of the hemoglobin in the body is transformed into methemoglobin. When this conversion exceeds 70% the condition may result in death 9. The potassium ion by itself possesses very little toxicity; the toxicity of the salts is associated with the anion. Potassium nitrate is rapidly absorbed from the upper gastrointestinal tract and is excreted mostly as the unchanged drug 7. This excludes a small percentage of the ingested dose that is reduced by the microbial action of the gut to nitrite. Nitrites convert the hemoglobin in red blood cells into methemoglobin 7. In male rats given potassium nitrate, intestinal absorption was affected 1. Adverse increased potassium intake included changes in blood lipids, triglyceride, decreased high-density lipoprotein [HDL] cholesterol), changes in renal function, and increases in catecholamine levels. The decrease in blood volume caused by increased potassium activates the sympathetic nervous system, resulting in the release of adrenaline and noradrenaline. Decreases in blood volume may also contribute to the observed changes in blood lipid concentrations 14. Death and severe effects of nitrate ingestion are generally associated with doses of the drugs above 10g NO3-. Doses ranging from 2-9 g NO3- have been reported to cause methemoglobinemia. These values correspond to 33 - 150 mg NO3-/kg 9
Desirudin | DrugBank Online Desirudin is a direct inhibitor of human thrombin. It has a protein structure that is similar to that of hirudin, the naturally occurring anticoagulant present in the peripharyngeal glands in the medicinal leech, Hirudo medicinalis. Hirudin is a single polypeptide chain of 65 amino acids residues and contains three disulfide bridges. Desirudin has a chemical formula of C287H440N80O110S6 with a molecular weight of 6963.52. It is mainly indicated for the prevention of deep vein thrombosis in hip replacement surgery patients.
Common side effects include: Bleeding gums, collection of blood under the skin, coughing up blood, deep, dark purple bruise and difficulty with breathing or swallowing. Indicated as prophylaxis of deep vein thrombosis for patients undergoing hip replacement surgery.  Desirudin results in dose-dependent prolongation of the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT).  Desirudin is a direct, highly selective thrombin inhibitor. Reversibly binds to the active thrombin site of free and clot-associated thrombin. Inhibits fibrin formation, activation of coagulation factors V, VII, and XIII, and thrombin-induced platelet aggregation resulting in a dose-dependent prolongation of the activated partial thromboplastin time (aPTT).  Absorption is complete after subcutaneous administration. Time to peak in plasma is 1 to 3 hours.  0.25 L/kg.  Desirudin binds specifically and directly to thrombin, forming an extremely tight, non-covalent complex with an inhibitionconstant of approximately 2.6 x 10-13 M. Thus, free or protein bound desirudin immediately binds circulating thrombin.  Human and animal data suggest that desirudin is primarily eliminated and metabolized by the kidney. The total urinary excretion of unchanged desirudin
amounts to 40 to 50% of the administered dose. Metabolites lacking one or two C-terminal amino acids constitute a minor proportion of the material
recovered from urine (< 7%). There is no evidence for the presence of other metabolites. This indicates that desirudin is metabolized by stepwise
Sulfur hexafluoride | DrugBank Online Sulfur hexafluoride is an ultrasound contrast agent indicated for use
•in echocardiography to opacify the left ventricular chamber and to improve the delineation of the left ventricular endocardial border in adult patients with suboptimal echocardiograms
•in ultrasonography of the liver for characterization of focal liver lesions in adult and pediatric patients Echocardiography: Sulfur hexafluoride is indicated for use in adult patients with suboptimal echocardiograms to opacify the left ventricular chamber and to improve the delineation of the left ventricularendocardial border.
Ultrasonography of the Liver: Sulfur hexafluoride is indicated for use with ultrasound of the liver in adult and pediatric patients to characterize focal liver lesions. Sulfur hexafluoride provides useful echocardiographic signal intensity for two minutes after the injection. Sulfur hexafluoride microspheres are destroyed and contrast enhancement decreases as the mechanical index increases (values of 0.8 or less are recommended).
Pamabrom | DrugBank Online Bromotheophylline is the active moiety of pamabrom, a mixture of 2-amino-2-methyl-propanol and bromotheophylline. From this mixture, bromotheophylline acts as a weak diuretic that has been used along with some analgesics to relieve the symptoms of premenstrual syndrome.1 Bromotheophylline is categorized on the FDA as a drug substance with an inactive state since March, 1980.3 It is also approved by Health Canada to be used alone or in combination with Acetaminophen in OTC products.4
Turpentine | DrugBank Online Turpentine, also known as spirit of turpentine, oil of turpentine, and wood turpentine, is a liquid extracted from live trees, mainly pine, through distillation of resin. It is used as a solvent and base material in organic synthesis reactions. Turpentine is composed of terpenes, mainly the monoterpenes alpha-pinene and beta-pinene with lesser amounts of carene, camphene, dipentene, and terpinolene. Turpentine has been used experimentally in a bath for the treatment of disseminated sclerosis and sexual dysfunction. It also has been studied for its antibacterial activity and inhibition of osteoclast activity. Turpentine is utilized in experimental models of inflammation to induce a systemic inflammatory immune response in animals. Turpentine oil, when inhaled, may help reduce congestion. When used on the skin, turpentine oil may cause warmth and redness that can help relieve pain in the tissue underneath. Binding of turpentine oil or inflammatory cytokines e.g. interleukin-1 (IL-1) activate signalling through the IL-1 Type 1 receptor (IL-1 R1). Initiation occurs by binding of Toll-interleukin 1 receptor adaptor protein (TIRAP) and Myeloid differentiation primary response gene 88 (mD88) which then dissociates and interacts with IRAK (Interleukin 1 receptor associated kinase) and the tumour necrosis factor receptor associated factor 6 (TRAF6). This activates the MAPK pathway leading to transcription of the nuclear factor κB transcription factor and production of inflammatory mediators.  Turpentine is readily absorbed from GI tract, skin, and respiratory tract. Turpentine, as a lipophilic substance, accumulates in fatty tissues. The highest concentrations of turpentine following inhalation by rats were found in the spleen, kidneys, brain, and peripheral and perinephric fat. Elimination of absorbed turpentine in the urine is manifested by an odor resembling that of violets. Eight male volunteers were exposed to 450 mg/cu m turpentine by inhalation (2 hr, 50 W) in an exposure chamber. The mean half lives of the last phase of alpha-pinene, beta-pinene, and 3-carene (components of turpentine) averaged 32, 25, and 42 hours, respectively. Human : TCLo ( Inhalation) 175ppm, Effects : lung, Thorax or Respiration
Human: TCLo ( inhalation ) 6gm/m3/3h , Effects : Behavioral: Headache
Infant: LDLo ( Oral ) 1748 mg/kg, Effect : GI, Nausea or vomiting
Man: LDLo (Oral ) 3mg/kg
Mouse LC50 ( inhalation ) 29mg/m3/2h
Mouse: LD50 ( intravenous ) 1180ug/kg
Dextran 40 | DrugBank Online Dextran is a polysaccharide that differs from others in that its glucose units are joined together 1:6 glucoside links. The main chain of glucose has short branches at frequent intervals which are probably joined by 1:3 and 1:4 glucoside links. The chains can be composed of about 200,000 glucose units.2 Many bacteria, like Leuconostoc, can synthesize dextran from sucrose, and this activity is used commercially to obtain dextran.5 Dextran 40 is a sterile, nonpyrogenic preparation of low molecular weight dextran (average mol. wt. 40,000) in 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. It is administered by intravenous infusion. Dextran 75 is a complex branched glucan with an average molecular weight 75000 Daltons. It is produced from certain bacteria that with α-1,6 glycosidic linkages between glucose molecules and α-1,3 linkages between branches. When labelled with technetium Tc99m, dextran 75 is intravenously administered as an imaging agent to detect and diagnose conditions in the vascular compartment such as pericardial effusion or ventricular aneurysm.
Calcium gluconate | DrugBank Online Calcium gluconate is used as mineral supplement and medication when there is insufficient calcium in the diet. Supplementation may be done to treat or prevent osteoporosis or rickets, consequences of hypocalcemia. It can also be taken by mouth but is not recommended by injection into a muscle.
Calcium Gluconate Injection, USP is a sterile, nonpyrogenic supersaturated solution of calcium gluconate for intravenous use only. Each mL contains: Calcium gluconate 94 mg; calcium saccharate (tetrahydrate) 4.5 mg; water for injection q.s. Hydrochloric acid and/or sodium hydroxide may have been added for pH adjustment (6.0 to 8.2). Calcium saccharate provides 6% of the total calcium and stabilizes the supersaturated solution of calcium gluconate.
Each 10 mL of the injection provides 93 mg elemental calcium (Ca++) equivalent to 1 g of calcium gluconate. Oral calcium salts are used as dietary supplemental therapy for person who may not get enough calcium in their regular diet. Calcium gluconate is used as a cardioprotective agent in high blood potassium. Calcium gluconate is the antidote for magnesium sulfate toxicity. Calcium Gluconate is the gluconate salt of calcium. An element or mineral necessary for normal nerve, muscle, and cardiac function, calcium as the gluconate salt helps to maintain calcium balance and prevent bone loss when taken orally. This agent may also be chemopreventive for colon and other cancers. Calcium is essential for the functional integrity of the nervous, muscular, and skeletal systems. It plays a role in normal cardiac function, renal function, respiration, blood coagulation, and cell membrane and capillary permeability. Also, calcium helps to regulate the release and storage of neurotransmitters and hormones, the uptake and binding of amino acids, absorption of vitamin B 12, and gastrin secretion. The major fraction (99%) of calcium is in the skeletal structure primarily as hydroxyapatite, Ca 10(PO 4) 6(OH) 2; small amounts of calcium carbonate and amorphous calcium phosphates are also present. The calcium of bone is in a constant exchange with the calcium of plasma. Since the metabolic functions of calcium are essential for life, when there is a disturbance in the calcium balance because of dietary deficiency or other causes, the stores of calcium in bone may be depleted to fill the body's more acute needs. Therefore, on a chronic basis, normal mineralization of bone depends on adequate amounts of total body calcium.  Approximately one-fifth to one-third of orally administered calcium is absorbed in the small intestine, depending on presence of vitamin D metabolites, pH in lumen, and on dietary factors, such as calcium binding to fiber or phytates. Calcium absorption is increased when a calcium deficiency is present or when a patient is on a low-calcium diet. In patients with achlorhydria or hypochlorhydria, calcium absorption, especially with the carbonate salt, may be reduced.  Not available Moderate, approximately 45% in plasma. Calcium gluconate does not require hepatic metabolism for the release of Ca++ and is as effective as calcium chloride in treating ionic hypocalcemia in the absence of hepatic function. Renal (20%) - The amount excreted in the urine varies with degree of calcium absorption and whether there is excessive bone loss or failure of renal conservation. Fecal (80%) - Consists mainly of nonabsorbed calcium, with only a small amount of endogenous fecal calcium excreted. Infants : LDLo (Intramuscular ) : 10gm/kg ; Effects - Brain and coverings : meningeal changes
Infants : TDLo ( Intramuscular ) : 143 mg/kg ; Effects - Dermatits
Mouse: LD50 ( intravenous ) : 950mg/kg
Selenious acid | DrugBank Online Selenious acid is the acid form of sodium selenite, a form of selenium 8. Selenium is an essential trace element and antioxidant. It is a cofactor metabolic enzyme regulation. It also plays an important role in maintaining the general health of tissue and muscle and has antioxidant properties. Selenium is a component of glutathione peroxidase enzyme, which protects cell components from oxidative damage due to peroxides produced during cellular metabolism 13. Selenium (Se) has been demonstrated to prevent cancer in numerous animal models when administered selenium at levels exceeding the nutritional requirements. One study showed efficacy in the prevention of malignancy while utilizing a selenium supplement in humans. The reports from such studies have heightened the interest in additional human selenium supplementation studies to validate the results in larger populations 15. Interestingly, selenium is being studied as a potential therapy in the prevention or management of atherosclerosis 18. Selenium injection is indicated for use as a supplement to intravenous solutions given for total parenteral nutrition (TPN). Administration of selenious acid in TPN formulas helps to maintain plasma selenium levels and also to maintain endogenous stores to prevent deficiency 19. Selenium compounds, such as selenium sulfide, are used topically in anti-dandruff shampoos and in cases of seborrhea 13.  For the purpose of brevity, selenite will the focus of discussion, and more information about selenium can be obtained at Selenium. Selenium is a component glutathione peroxidase, which protects cells from oxidative damage caused by peroxidases produced during cellular metabolism 8. Selenium is needed to maintain the circulatory system. It also keeps the heart muscle and skin tissue healthy. It may also help in the prevention of cancer due to its stimulation of antioxidant activity and protection of cell membranes 13, 3. Selenious acid preserves vitamin E, which improves the cell's antioxidant defense, and plays an important role in the structure of teeth 8. Prolonged TPN (total parenteral nutrition) support in humans has resulted in selenium deficiency symptoms which include muscle pain and tenderness. The symptoms have been reported to respond to supplementation of TPN solutions with selenium Selenium, 19. Pediatric conditions, Keshan disease, and Kwashiorkor have been associated with low dietary intake of selenium. The conditions are endemic to geographical areas marked by low selenium content in the soil. Dietary supplementation with selenium salts has been reported to reduce the incidence of the conditions among affected children 19. Sodium selenite likely has the same mechanism of action as Selenium. The most important physiological role of sodium selenite is associated with its presence as an active component of many enzymes and proteins, in addition to its antioxidative role. Selenium has been shown to activate anticancer agents, prevent heart and vascular diseases, exhibit anti-proliferative and anti-inflammatory properties, and to stimulate the immune system 22. Its anticancer properties may be explained by the oxidation of free sulfhydryl groups. Tumor cells express free sulfhydryl groups (–SH) on the surface of their cell membranes and contribute to uncontrolled cell division. Only those compounds that can oxidize these groups to disulfides (S–S) may inhibit this process. Some organic forms of selenium, including selenocysteine, methylseleninic acid, and Se-methylselenocysteine have been established to be antioxidants. However, their anticancer mechanism is still not well understood 22. Selenious acid, during an in vitro study, was found to stimulate hemoglobin synthesis in three different malignant erythroleukemia cell lines (MEL) 8. It has also been shown to increase the release of interleukin 2 in a dose-dependent manner 6. Interleukin-2 is made by a type of T lymphocyte (white blood cell). It increases the growth and activity of other T-lymphocytes and B-lymphocytes and this contributes to the development of the immune system 6. The absorption of selenite following oral administration approximately 40-70% of an oral dose, based on studies done in humans 20. Selenoprotein P, the plasma form of selenium, contains at least 40% of the total selenium in plasma 25. Deletion of the gene for selenoprotein P in mouse models alters the distribution of selenium in body tissues suggesting that selenoprotein P is necessary for selenium transport 4. Following oral intake and absorption, selenium from sodium selenite is found in the highest concentrations in the liver and kidneys of humans and animals 20. In one study, tissue samples taken at autopsy from 46 healthy individuals killed in accidents and from 75 corpses of victims of various diseases to analyze selenium levels and distribution 4. The per-weight-unit basis of selenium levels ng/gm in wet in tissues decreased in the following order: kidney (469) > liver > spleen > pancreas > heart > brain > lung > bone > skeletal muscle. The highest proportion of body selenium was found in skeletal muscles (27.5%) 4, 24. Significantly less selenium was measured in bones (16%) and blood (10%). In the tissues of cancer corpses, the selenium levels were lower than levels in the control group. The lowest selenium concentrations were measured in alcoholic livers 4. Absorbed selenium, from both inorganic sources such as selenite and organic sources including selenomethionine, is metabolized to hydrogen selenide, and subsequently incorporated into essential selenoproteins 20. In vivo, selenium compounds are generally metabolized to reduced states. For example, quadrivalent selenium (Se+4) in selenite often undergoes reduction to Se−2, metabolized firstly to H2Se and, finally, being methylated to various excretory forms. Selenious acid to oxidize sulfurous acid: H2SeO3 + 2H2SO3 → Se0 + 2H2SO4 + H2O 10. Se may also produce reactive oxygen species and, thereby, exert cancer-selective cytotoxicity. Selenodiglutathione (SDG) is a primary Se metabolite conjugated to two glutathione (GSH) moieties. Selenodiglutathione increases intracellular selenium accumulation and is significantly more toxic than selenous acid (H2SeO3). 2. The liver is the central organ for selenium regulation and produces excretory selenium forms to regulate whole-body selenium 10. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Selenium is eliminated mainly in the urine. However, significant endogenous losses through the feces can also occur 23. The rate of excretion varies with the chemical form of selenium used in supplementation and the route of administration. Other minor routes of elimination are lungs and skin 19. Analysis of 72-hour urine sampling from a study of 48 Norwegian women given a 200 μg supplement of selenium in the form of selenite indicated approximately 50% absorption of selenite 20. 30 days in beagle dogs 8. The toxicity of selenium has been consistently well documented. However, some early studies reported that selenium may be a carcinogen. Nelson et al. (1943) showed that rats fed diets containing Se as seleniferous wheat developed hepatic tumors and low-grade carcinomas in 11 out 53 study animals 11. Selenium at high doses (15-30 mcg/egg) has been reported to have significant adverse embryological effects on developing chickens. There currently no adequate and well-controlled studies in pregnant women. Selenious acid injections should be used during pregnancy only when the potential benefits justify the potential risk to the growing fetus 20. The presence of selenium in the placenta and the umbilical cord blood has been reported in humans 20. Overdosage symptoms with selenious acid include: Acute
Brick red–color gastric mucosa, cerebral edema, coma, death, fulminating peripheral vascular collapse, garlic or sour breath odor, gastrointestinal disturbance, hemolysis, hypersalivation, internal vascular congestion, liver necrosis, muscle spasms, pulmonary edema, and restlessness 20. Chronic
Omega-3 fatty acids | DrugBank Online Omega-3 fatty acids are polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) with a double bond at the third carbon atom from the end of the carbon chain. The three types of omega-3 fatty acids involved in human physiology are α-linolenic acid (ALA) (found in plant oils), eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) (both commonly found in fish oil that originally come from microalgae that is further consumed by phytoplankton, a source of diet for fish). Omega-3 fatty acids play a critical role in metabolism and cellular function and they are available as daily supplements. On September 8, 2004, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration gave "qualified health claim" status to EPA and DHA omega-3 fatty acids. Therapeutic products containing omega-3 fatty acid and its derivatives for treatment of hypertriglyceridemia include Lovaza, Omtryg, Epanova, and Vascepa. Provided as daily supplements. Aa preparation of omega-3-acid ethyl esters is licensed in UK for prevention of recurrent events after myocardial infarction in addition to treatment of hypertriglyceridaemia.  Omega-3 fatty acids are triglycerides that get broken down into smaller fatty acid units. They act to reduce plasma triglyceride levels however increase the cholesterol levels and are thought to possess potent antiarrythmic effects. Polyunsaturated fatty acids including eicosapentaenoic and docosahexaenoic acid mediate important cellular function such as inhibition of platelet function, prolongation of bleeding time, anti-inflammatory effects and reduction of plasma fibrinogen. Polyunsaturated fatty acids are components of the phospholipids that form the structures of the cell membranes and also serve as energy source. They form eicosanoids which are important signalling molecules with wide-ranging functions in the body's cardiovascular, pulmonary, immune and endocrine systems. DHA tends to exist in high concentrations in the retina, brain (via uptake by Mfsd2a as a transporter), and sperm. Omega-3 fatty acids mediate anti-inflammatory effects and increased levels of EPA or DHA has shown to decrease the levels of PGE2 and 4 series-LT.
Eicosapentaenoic acids compete with constitutive levels of arachidonic acid in cell membranes for the same desaturation enzymes and produce 3-series prostaglandins and thromboxanes, and 5-series leukotrienes which have low pro-inflammatory potential. The alteration in leukotriene biosynthesis due to higher concentration of omega-3 fatty acids compared to arachidonic acid underlies the anti-inflammatory effects.
EPA and DHA also give rise to resolvins and related lipid signalling molecules such as protectins via cyclooxygenase and lipoxygenase pathways, which have anti-inflammatory effects. They inhibit transendothelial migration of neutrophils and inhibit TNF and IL-1β production. Omega-3 fatty acids also decrease adhesion molecule expression on leukocytes and on endothelial cells and decrease intercellular adhesive interactions.
Omega-3 (or n-3) polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs) and their metabolites are natural ligands for peroxisome proliferator-activated receptor (PPAR) gamma that regulates inflammatory gene expression and NFκB activation. PPAR alpha activation is also associated with induction of COX-2 expression.
Oxyquinoline | DrugBank Online Oxyquinoline is a heterocyclic phenol and derivative of quinoline with antiseptic, disinfectant, and pesticide properties. It is used as a stabilizer for hydrogen peroxide, where it is sometimes added in cosmetic products. Oxyquinoline is used as a biocidal component of several over the counter products. These products are marketed for the purposes of inhibiting abnormal biological growth in the vagina and restoring natural pH.  Oxyquinoline acts as a biocide to eliminate bacteria and fungi 1. The mechanism by which oxyquinoline exerts its biocidal effect is unknown. In the urine, 60% of the dose is excreted as glucuronide conjugates and 23% of the dose as sulfate conjugates 1. In the bile, 9% of the total dose is found as glucuronide conjugates. Hover over products below to view reaction partners Oxyquinoline is excreted in both the primarily in the urine with some in the bile 1. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC). 1977. IARC Monographs
on the Evaluation of the Carcinogenic Risk of Chemicals to Humans, vol.
Pyrantel | DrugBank Online Pyrantel is a pyrimidine-derivative anthelmintic agent for the oral treatment of various parasitic worm infections including ascariasis, hookworm infections, enterobiasis (pinworm infection), trichostrongyliasis, and trichinellosis 17. Pyrantel was initially described in 1965 by researchers from Pfizer who sought cyclic amidines with suitable pharmacokinetic properties (specifically, duration of action) for use as an anthelmintic drug. Pyrantel is mainly available in formulations for dogs and cats as the embonate salt, containing a 34.7% pyrantel base 14.  Pyrantel is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, which are the safest and most effective medicines required in a functioning health system 15, 16.  A depolarizing neuromuscular-blocking agent causing longstanding nicotinic receptor activation, resulting in spastic paralysis of susceptible nematodes (worms). Pyrantel has shown to be effective after a single dose 18. In humans, it is administered as pyrantel pamoate 3,4,8,12. For the treatment of enterobiasis including roundworm (ascariasis), pinworm (enterobius) and hookworm (strongyloides) and hookworm (ancylostoma) in the pyrantel pamoate form 8. Pyrantel is available in various formulations for humans, dogs, and cats as the pamoate (US Pharmacopeia nomenclature) or embonate (European Pharmacopoeia nomenclature) salt, which contains 34.7% pyrantel base combined with pamoic acid 8. 14, 4. Pyrantel pamoate (embonate) ingested orally is effective for removal and control of ascarid and hookworm infections in puppies and dogs (adult Toxocara canis, Toxascaris leonina, Ancylostoma tubaeforme, An. braziliense, Uncinaria stenocephala), cats (adult Toxocara cati, Toxa. leonina, An. caninum, An. braziliense, U. stenocephala), horses and ponies (adult and immature Parascaris equorum, adult Strongylus vulgaris, S. edentatus, S. equinus, Cyathostomes (Triodontophorus spp., Cyathostomum spp., Cylicodontophorus spp., Cylicocyclus spp., Cylicostephanus spp., Poteriostomum spp.), Oxyuris equi, Anoplocephala perfoliata), swine (adult Ascaris suum, Oesophagostomum dentatum), and humans (adult A. lumbricoides, Enterobius vermicularis, An. duodenale, Necator americanus) 14. It has similar properties to both competitive and depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents, which leads to the understanding of the paralytic effect of the drug has on parasites, ultimately resulting in the death of the parasite 16, 8.  By promoting the release of acetylcholine, inhibiting cholinesterase, and stimulating ganglionic neurons, pyrantel serves as a depolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent in helminths. This causes extensive depolarization of the helminth muscle membrane, resulting in tension to the helminth's muscles, leading to paralysis and release of their attachment to the host organism intestinal walls 8. This action is unlike piperazine, which is a hyperpolarizing neuromuscular blocking agent that causes relaxation of the helminth muscles, leading to a subsequent detachment from the intestinal wall. Excretion of the parasites in the feces occurs by normal peristalsis 7. Pyrantel is poorly absorbed from the GI tract of humans 8, 21. Peak serum concentrations occur 1–3 hours after a single dose 17. Pyrantel is administered orally.
Anthralin | DrugBank Online Anthralin (1,8‐dihydroxy‐9anthrone, dithranol) is an older anti-psoriatic agent that was first synthesized as a derivative of chrysarobin, obtained from the araroba tree in Brazil over 100 years ago. Adverse effects of anthralin include irritation and discoloration of the skin 2. This specific property of the molecule inspired workers to study details of its pharmacology. It is important to consider that the drug is relatively innocuous, yet effective, and systemic side effects have not been observed with this anthralin, in contrast to a wide variety of systemic and topical therapies for psoriasis 9.  Anthralin is also known as dithranol. It is a main active ingredient in topical skin formulations for the treatment of psoriasis. Various formulations of the drug are available, including solutions, foams, and shampoos 13. The chemical structure of anthralin allows for dual solubility, permitting the compound to be absorbed well through the epidermis 1.  Anthralin has also been studied in the treatment of warts, showing promising results 3. Salicylic acid is frequently added to anthralin to augment the stability of anthralin and to increase its penetration and efficacy 13. Stable plaque psoriasis of the skin and scalp 8. It is also used topically in the management of psoriasis, dermatoses, and alopecia areata. Anthralin is also used in biomedical research due to its effect on EGFR autophosphorylation 10. Anthralin is a natural anthraquinone derivative, anti-psoriatic and anti-inflammatory agent. It controls skin growth by reducing the synthesis of DNA and the mitotic activity in the hyperplastic epidermis, normalizing the rate of cell proliferation and keratinization 10. Anthralin inhibits the proliferation of keratinocytes (epidermal skin cells), prevents the action of T-cells, and promotes cell differentiation, likely through mitochondrial dysfunction. In addition, the production of free radicals may contribute to its anti-psoriatic effect 13. In vitro studies demonstrate that anthralin prolongs the prophase component of mitosis for keratinocytes and leukocytes 7. Prophase is the first step of mitosis, the process separating the duplicated genetic material carried in the nucleus of a parent cell into two identical daughter cells 14. In vivo studies demonstrate that anthralin blocks DNA synthesis and can increase the release of reactive oxygen species 7. Anthralin is believed to normalize the rate of epidermal cell proliferation and keratinization by reducing the mitotic activity of the epidermal hyperplasia in psoriasis 13. Anti-proliferative and anti-inflammatory effects of anthralin have been demonstrated on both psoriatic and healthy skin. The anti-proliferative effects of anthralin are thought to be due to a combination of inhibition of DNA synthesis and its strong reducing properties. The effectiveness of anthralin as an anti-psoriatic agent is partly owed to its ability to promote lipid peroxidation and reduce the concentration of endothelial adhesion molecules, which are found to be elevated in psoriatic patients 8, 13. Recent studies suggest that its ability to prevent T-lymphocyte activation and normalize keratinocyte differentiation may occur by a direct effect on mitochondria 4. Anthralin penetrates damaged skin and psoriatic lesions faster and to a greater extent than normal skin, likely due to increased vascularity of psoriatic lesions 7. Anthralin is administered topically. Although the extent of systemic absorption after topical application has not been determined, no traces of anthraquinone metabolites were detected in the urine of treated subjects in a limited clinical study of anthralin cream 7, 8. Anthralin does not inhibit hepatic microsomal enzyme activity 8. Some mild adverse effects include alterations in nail coloring, hair coloring, increase in photosensitivity, and skin irritation 8. The most common side effects of anthralin are skin irritation and staining of nearby skin, nails, clothing, and other objects that come in contact with the treated patient. The incidence of irritation of psoriatic/surrounding healthy skin is higher in patients who leave anthralin on the skin without rinsing than in those who use short-contact therapy of 2 hours or less, followed by rinsing 12. If the psoriatic plaques are well circumscribed, the surrounding normal skin may be protected by the use of a coating agent such as zinc oxide ointment. Anthralin should be applied cautiously to the face and intertriginous areas due to the risk of severe skin irritation 13. There is no current evidence of any long-term anthralin toxicity related either to skin exposure or to systemic issues 12.
Potassium nitrite | DrugBank Online Nitrous acid (as sodium nitrite) is used as part of an intravenous mixture with sodium thiosulfate to treat cyanide poisoning. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines, a list of the most important medications needed in a basic health system. There is also research to investigate its applicability towards treatments for heart attacks, brain aneurysms, pulmonary hypertension in infants, and Pseudomonas aeruginosa infections.
Antithrombin Alfa | DrugBank Online Antithrombin Alfa is a recombinant antithrombin , an anticoagulant, that is used for the prevention of thromboembolic events in patients that have hereditary deficiency of antithrombin in high risk situations. Antithrombin alfa is a recombinant antithrombin it is indicated for the prevention of peri-operative and peri-partum thromboembolic events in patients with hereditary deficiency of antithrombin.  Hereditary antithrombin deficiency causes an increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE). In high risk situations, such as surgery or trauma or for pregnant women during the peri-partum period, the risk of development of VTEs is 10-50 times greater than the general population. In hereditary antithrombin deficient patients antithrombin alfa normalizes plasma antthrombin activity levels during peri-operative and peri-partum periods. Antithrombin is the main inhibitor of thrombin and Factor Xa , the serine proteases involved in blood coagulation. Antithrombin neutralizes the activity of thrombin and Factor Xa by forming a complex which is rapidly removed from the circulation.  Given IV so not absorbed. Dose of:
50IU/kg: 126.2 ml/kg
100IU/kg: 156.1 ml/kg
Vd in hereditary deficient pregnant women in high risk situations had increased Vd of 14.3L. Binds and inhibits thrombin and factor Xa. Not metabolized. Irreversible complexes formed between antithrombin III and its target protease are rapidly removed by the liver. Dose of:
50IU/kg: 11.6 h
100IU/kg: 17.7 h Dose of:
50IU/kg: 9.6 ml/hr/kg
100IU/kg: 7.2 ml/hr/kg
Aluminum sulfate tetradecahydrate | DrugBank Online Aluminum (Al), also spelled aluminum, chemical element, a lightweight, silvery-white metal of main Group 13 (IIIa, or boron group) of the periodic table 9. It is a chemical agent used in water purification, the pH regulation of garden soil, and other commercial or industrial applications. Medically, it is primarily used as a coagulating agent in minor cuts and abrasions as well as deodorant 5. Aluminum (Al) is ubiquitous and represents the third most common element in the Earth’s crust. It most commonly exists in a combined state with various other elements. Al is found in materials used in the pharmaceutical industry, and in manufactured foodstuffs, cosmetics, and tap water. By overcoming the body barriers, Al may infiltrate into the blood and lead to toxic effects in liver, bone and the central nervous system 6.
Xylitol | DrugBank Online Xylitol is a naturally occurring five-carbon sugar alcohol found in most plant material, including many fruits and vegetables. Xylitol-rich plant materials include birch and beechwood 1. It is widely used as a sugar substitute and in "sugar-free" food products. The effects of xylitol on dental caries have been widely studied, and xylitol is added to some chewing gums and other oral care products to prevent tooth decay and dry mouth. Xylitol is a non-fermentable sugar alcohol by most plaque bacteria, indicating that it cannot be fermented into cariogenic acid end-products 4. It works by inhibiting the growth of the microorganisms present in plaque and saliva after it accummulates intracellularly into the microorganism 4. The recommended dose of xylitol for dental caries prevention is 6–10 g/day, and most adults can tolerate 40 g/day without adverse events 1. Indicated for use as a sugar substitute, and oral hygiene active ingredient.  There has been evidence of xylitol in dental hygiene in reducing dental caries disease and also reversing the process of early caries 1. Xylitol increases salivary flow and pH, reduces the levels of Streptococcus mutans in plaque and saliva and reduces the adhesion on the microorganism to the teeth surface 1. Streptococcus mutans is the main target plaque microorganism 2, but xylitol may potentially have inhibitory actions against several other bacterial species 1.
Menthyl salicylate | DrugBank Online Menthyl salicylate is an ester of menthol and salicylic acid 1. This product is used to treat minor aches and pains of the muscles/joints (e.g., arthritis, backache, sprains) 2. For the temporary relief of pain associated with rheumatism, arthritis, neuralgia, sprains and strains of joints and muscles, lumbago and fibrositis 7. Menthol and methyl salicylate are known as counterirritants. They work by causing the skin to feel cool and then warm. Used together, they provide symptomatic relief for mild to moderate muscular and joint aches and pains, muscle cramps, shoulder aches and stiff neck.2. Menthol dilates the blood vessels causing a sensation of coldness, followed by an analgesic effect. Menthol also acts as a penetration enhancer, increasing the penetration of drugs when applied on the skin, to give a faster onset of action 6. Methyl salicylate is a salicylic acid derivative, and when combined with menthol, produces menthyl salicylate 6. Salicylates inhibit cyclooxygenase, thereby reducing the formation of prostaglandins, and cause platelet dysfunction
Methyl salicylate is used topically as a counter-irritant. Upon application, it is absorbed through the skin and is applied for the relief of pain in rheumatic conditions and painful muscle or joints 6. The menthol dilates blood vessels, why the salicylate portion provides a topical anesthetic and analgesic action on the affected area. The cooling and warning action may interfere with the transmission of pain signals through nerves 6. May be absorbed through intact skin. The absorption of topical salicylates is proportional to the surface area exposed, the duration of exposure, concentration and skin integrity. Absorption characteristics of salicylates vary with the dose, formulation, and route of administration. Percutaneous absorption is enhanced by exercise, heat, occlusion, or disruption of the integrity of the skin or application to large areas of skin. Both the rate and extent of absorption increases after continuous application, increasing its bioavailability 7. Salicylate intoxication may occur after ingestion or topical application of menthyl salicylate.
Potassium dichromate | DrugBank Online
Methylcellulose | DrugBank Online Methyl cellulose polymer consisting of numerous linked glucose molecules used as a stabiliser, thickener and emulsifier for foodstuffs and cosmetics. The Degree of Substitution (DS) of a given form of methyl cellulose is defined as the average number of substituted hydroxyl groups per glucose with a theoretical maximum of 3, however more typical values are 1.3 2.6. Methyl cellulose is a hydrophilic white powder in pure form and dissolves in cold (but not in hot) water, forming a clear viscous solution or gel. It is available under a variety of trade names as a treatment for constipation. Like cellulose, it is not digestible, not toxic, and not allergenic Solutions containing methyl cellulose are used as substitute for tears or saliva if the natural production of these fluids is disturbed. It is also used or constipation, diverticulosis, hemorrhoids and irritable bowel syndrome. Used in the manufacture of capsules in nutritional supplements. Its edible and nontoxic properties provide a vegetarian alternative to the use of gelatin. It increases the bulk in your stool, an effect that helps to cause movement of the intestines. It also works by increasing the amount of water in the stool, making the stool softer and easier to pass. Methylcellulose absorbs water in the gastrointestinal lumen thereby increasing the bulk of the stool. This leads to distension and stimulation of peristalsis. The ability of methylcellulose to absorb water may contribute to its efficacy in the management of diarrhea by once again increasing the bulk and consistency of the stool. Cellulose derivatives considered in this report are virtually unabsorbed and little or no degradation of absorbed and little or no degradation of absorbable products occurs in the human digestive tract. In humans, virtually 100 percent of orally ingested methyl cellulose can be recovered in the feces withihn four days, indicating that absorption does not occur. accumulation in liver, spleen, lymph nodes, kidney, and vascular walls. Reported that when methylcellulose was given iv to dog and rabbit , aside from effect upon circulating blood, inability of body to degrade substance led to its retention & accumulation in liver, spleen, lymph nodes, kidney, and vascular walls. When swallowed they are not absorbed to any appreciable degree and appear unchanged in feces. 4.2 minutes Organism: Mouse
Test type: LD50
Route : Intraperitoneal
Reported Dose: 275gm/kg ( 275000mg/kg)
Toxic Effect: Details of toxic effects not reported other than lethal dose value Organism: Mouse
Test type: LDLo
Route : Intravenous
Reported Dose: 1gm/kg ( 1000mg/kg)
Magnesium Aluminum Silicate | DrugBank Online Magnesium aluminum silicate is a naturally occurring mineral obtained from silicate ores of the montmorillonite group 1. It is refined to a powder for use in cosmetic and pharmaceutical applications as an absorbent, anticaking agent, opacifying agent, viscosity-increasing agent, suspending agent, tablet and capsule disintegrant, and
Aluminum sulfate | DrugBank Online Aluminum (Al), also spelled aluminum, chemical element, a lightweight, silvery-white metal of main Group 13 (IIIa, or boron group) of the periodic table 9. It is a chemical agent used in water purification, the pH regulation of garden soil, and other commercial or industrial applications. Medically, it is primarily used as a coagulating agent in minor cuts and abrasions as well as deodorant 5. Aluminum (Al) is ubiquitous and represents the third most common element in the Earth’s crust. It most commonly exists in a combined state with various other elements. Al is found in materials used in the pharmaceutical industry, and in manufactured foodstuffs, cosmetics, and tap water. By overcoming the body barriers, Al may infiltrate into the blood and lead to toxic effects in liver, bone and the central nervous system 6. Solutions containing 5 to 10% aluminum sulfate have been used as local applications to ulcers and to arrest foul discharges from mucous surfaces. Aluminum sulfate is also used in the preparation of aluminum acetate ear drops 10. It is often purchased over the counter and is available in solid stick or powder form for minor cuts and abrasions after shaving 16, 21. Aluminum sulfate is also used as an adjuvant in vaccines 17. Aluminum sulfate may be used as a deodorant, as well as an astringent 19. Aluminum sulfate is also known as an astringent. Astringents are substances that cause contraction or shrinkage of tissues and that dry up secretion 19. Used as a post-shaving treatment, it can eliminate bleeding from superficial wounds 16, 21.  It has also shown in vitro anti-microbial activity 19. When used as a deodorant, the volume of sweat produced is reduced by narrowing sweat ducts. The inhibition of body odor causing bacteria is another important strategy for deodorization 19.  By inhibiting or deactivating odor-producing bacteria, there is little to none metabolism of sweat components thus decreasing the occurrence of body odor 19.  Recent studies suggest that the active binding of alum to the membranes of dendritic cells (DCs) result in alteration of lipid membranes structures as a key process in alum's adjuvant effect in vaccines. As new adjuvants are being developed, alum may remain as an ingredient of adjuvant combinations, or it may eventually be supplemented by other agents that more effectively provide depot and local inflammatory responses to accentuate host immune responses 17. The degree of aluminum absorption depends on a number of factors, such as the aluminum salt ingested, pH (for aluminum speciation and solubility), bioavailability, as well as dietary conditions 10. These facts should be taken into consideration during tissue dosimetry and response assessment to aluminum sulfate. It can be concluded that the use of currently available animal studies to develop a guideline value is inappropriate at this time due to the above specific toxicokinetic/dynamic factors that may affect results 10. Aluminium which is absorbed is located primarily in the heart, spleen, and bone 12. Aluminum is excreted predominantly via the kidneys and therefore may accumulate in patients with renal failure 14. About 2% is excreted in bile 16. Numerous studies have actually shown that the rate of aluminum clearance in the blood decreases with time following aluminum ingestion, and therefore a single elimination half-life (t1⁄2) cannot depict the whole-body elimination of aluminum 15. Aluminum Sulfate, Hydrated (ACS & FCC): ORAL (LD50):
Dextran 75 | DrugBank Online Dextran is a polysaccharide that differs from others in that its glucose units are joined together 1:6 glucoside links. The main chain of glucose has short branches at frequent intervals which are probably joined by 1:3 and 1:4 glucoside links. The chains can be composed of about 200,000 glucose units.2 Many bacteria, like Leuconostoc, can synthesize dextran from sucrose, and this activity is used commercially to obtain dextran.5 Dextran 40 is a sterile, nonpyrogenic preparation of low molecular weight dextran (average mol. wt. 40,000) in 5% Dextrose Injection or 0.9% Sodium Chloride Injection. It is administered by intravenous infusion. Dextran 75 is a complex branched glucan with an average molecular weight 75000 Daltons. It is produced from certain bacteria that with α-1,6 glycosidic linkages between glucose molecules and α-1,3 linkages between branches. When labelled with technetium Tc99m, dextran 75 is intravenously administered as an imaging agent to detect and diagnose conditions in the vascular compartment such as pericardial effusion or ventricular aneurysm.
Collagenase clostridium histolyticum | DrugBank Online Collagenase clostridium histolyticum is an enzyme produced by the bacterium Clostridium histolyticum. It is beneficial in the breakdown of collagen plaques for the treatment of Dupuytren's contracture and Peyronie's disease.11 The topical formulation is used for the debridement of necrotic tissue due to burns or chronic ulcers.14 On July 6, 2020 a combination of injectable bacterial collagenases was approved by the FDA for the treatment of cellulite in adult women.10 Also known as Qwo, this injection is the first approved injectable treatment for cellulite and was developed by Endo International.13 Collagenase clostridium histolyticum is indicated for the treatment of adults with Dupuytren's contracture with a palpable cord. Additionally, it is used to treat men with Peyronie's disease diagnosed with a penile curvature deformity of at least a 30-degree angle at the beginning of therapy in addition to palpable plaques.11 Collagenase ointment is used for the tissue debridement of chronic dermal ulcers and severely burned tissues.15
The combination collagenase product, also known as Qwo, is used for the treatment of moderate to severe cellulite in the buttocks of adult women.10 Collagenase digests collagen, treating conditions such as Peyronie's disease, cellulite, chronic ulcers, burns, and contractures.10,11,14 Peyronie's disease is a fibrous lesion of the tunica albuginea in the penile tissues.4 Cellulite is a multifactorial condition resulting in the accumulation of fibrotic dermal septae and the expansion of subcutaneous fat.3 Dupuytren's contracture is a fibroproliferative disease that results in the fibrous deposition of collagen in the hands, limiting mobility and functionality of the hands.5 The collagen deposition in the abovementioned conditions is the target of collagenase enzyme therapy.6,7 These enzymes are proteinases acting to hydrolyze collagen's triple-helical conformation, resulting in the lysis of collagen deposits and relief from the necrotic tissue and plaques associated with several conditions.11,14 On a molecular level, collagenases cleave polypeptide chains that make up the collagen triple helix structure at various loci, leading to solubilization from the collagen fibril.8 There is currently limited readily available regarding the absorption of collagenase through the skin.14
DL-Methylephedrine | DrugBank Online Methylephedrine is a sympathomimetic amine that appears in various over-the-counter cough and cold medications throughout the world 9, 10, 11. The abuse of methylephedrine-containing medications has been reported in Japan. Methylephedrine is not legally available in the United States, but has been identified in cases of drug abuse 7. Used as an antitussive and decongestant 5. This drugs acts as an antitussive, bronchodilator, and adrenergic receptor agonist 5. It stimulates the alpha and beta adrenergic receptors, relieving cough and congestion 5. As with other adrenomimetic amines, the drugs in this class are much less potent than norepinephrine itself. Members of this class of drugs increase both systolic and diastolic blood pressure, cardiac contractility, and cardiac output; in general, however, they do not increase heart rate. Bronchial smooth muscle relaxation of prolonged duration occurs, and pupils dilate 7. The pharmacology of methylephedrine is similar to that of other members of the ephedra alkaloid class of drugs. These compounds are sympathomimetic amines because they mimic the effects of the catecholamines on the sympathetic nervous system. These alkaloids permeate the blood-brain barrier and have a direct central nervous system stimulant effect with peripheral effects; the peripheral effects are indirect and primarily mediated by norepinephrine release 7.  Methylephedrine expands the bronchia by relaxing the bronchial muscles 15. The decrease in urination with sympathomimetic use is increased through activation of the alpha-adrenoceptors of the smooth muscles of the bladder 15. Methylephedrine is rapidly absorbed following oral administration 7. Peak plasma concentrations of ephedrine (from which methylephedrine is derived) occur 2-3h after administration 3. Due to the fact that methylephedrine is a derivative of ephedrine 12, peak plasma concentrations are likely similar. Ephedrine: 2.5-3.0 L/kg 3. Methylephedrine is a derivative of ephedrine 12 and quickly distributed throughout the body 15. Methylephedrine is metabolized to give ephedrine and norephedrine 15. The primary compound excreted in urine is unchanged methylephedrine (33-40% of dose), followed by the metabolite methylephedrine-N-oxide (15% of dose), and approximately 8% of the dose excreted as ephedrine after 24 hours. About 70% of the dose is excreted in the urine as metabolites over 72 hours 7. Alkaline urine reduces elimination to 20-35% of the dose 15. 3-6 hours (Ephedrine) 15. Ld50 mouse (intraperitoneal): 185mg/kg 6. Sympathomimetic drugs, such as DL-methylphedrine, can lead to an increase in catecholamines, resulting in a variety of effects 2, 13: Nervous System/CNS/Psychiatric Insomnia, Headaches, Seizure, Cerebrovascular Accident, Nervousness, Tremor or other motor disturbance, Psychosis with long-term, chronic use 15 Cardiovascular System
Hypertension, Cardiac arrhythmia, Myocardial Infarction, Hypersensitivity Myocarditis Renal System
Nephrolithiasis General
Coccidioides immitis spherule | DrugBank Online Coccidioides immitis spherule is a skin test antigen indicated to detect delayed-type hypersensitivity to Coccidioides immitis in individuals with a history of pulmonary coccidioidomycosis. Indicated to detect delayed-type hypersensitivity to Coccidioides immitis in individuals with a history of pulmonary coccidioidomycosis. Use in 18-64 year old patients. A positive result occurs if 48h after administration if the diameter of the induration is >5mm.  Illicit cellular immune response if patient has been exposed to Coccidiodes immitis.  Delayed type hypersensitivity reaction begin with the C.immitis antigen is presented to CD4 and CD8 lymphocytes by antigen presenting cells. This causes the secretion of interleukins and other lymphokines from macrophage cells. The release of effector molecules causes blood vessels to become permeable and allows fibrinogen to escape into the surrounding tissue where it is converted to fibrin. The deposition of fibrin and the movement of T-cells and monocytes in the extracellular spaces cause the tissue to become indurated. The induration is usually detectable in 18 hours and peaks at 48 hours.  Not absorbed. Given intradermally for local effect. Not absorbed systemically.  Not absorbed systemically.  Not metabolized.  Eliminated via cellular immune response.  Systemic hypersensitivity reaction may be life threatening.  A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Brown J, Benedict K, Park BJ, Thompson GR. Coccidioidomycosis: epidemiology. Clinical Epidemiology. 2013;5:185-197. doi:10.2147/CLEP.S34434.
Nicotine | DrugBank Online Nicotine is highly toxic alkaloid. It is the prototypical agonist at nicotinic cholinergic receptors where it dramatically stimulates neurons and ultimately blocks synaptic transmission. Nicotine is also important medically because of its presence in tobacco smoke. For the relief of nicotine withdrawal symptoms and as an aid to smoking cessation. Nicotine, the primary alkaloid in tobacco products binds stereo-selectively to nicotinic-cholinergic receptors on autonomic ganglia, the adrenal medulla, neuromuscular junctions and in the brain. Nicotine exerts two effects, a stimulant effect exerted at the locus ceruleus and a reward effect in the limbic system. Itranvenous administration of nicotine causes release of acetylcholine, norepinephrine, dopamine, serotonine, vasopressin, beta-endorphin and ACTH. Nicotine is a highly addictive substance. Nicotine also induces peripheral vasoconstriction, tachycardia and elevated blood pressure. Nicotine inhalers and patches are used to treat smoking withdrawl syndrome. Nicotine is classified as a stimulant of autonomic ganglia. Nicotine is a stimulant drug that acts as an agonist at nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. These are ionotropic receptors composed up of five homomeric or heteromeric subunits. In the brain, nicotine binds to nicotinic acetylcholine receptors on dopaminergic neurons in the cortico-limbic pathways. This causes the channel to open and allow conductance of multiple cations including sodium, calcium, and potassium. This leads to depolarization, which activates voltage-gated calcium channels and allows more calcium to enter the axon terminal. Calcium stimulates vesicle trafficking towards the plasma membrane and the release of dopamine into the synapse. Dopamine binding to its receptors is responsible the euphoric and addictive properties of nicotine.
Phenoxyethanol | DrugBank Online Phenoxyethanol is a colorless liquid with a pleasant odor. It is a glycol ether used as a perfume fixative, insect repellent, antiseptic, solvent, preservative, and also as an anesthetic in fish aquaculture. Phenoxyethanol is an ether alcohol with aromatic properties. It is both naturally found and manufactured synthetically. Demonstrating antimicrobial ability, phenoxyethanol acts as an effective preservative in pharmaceuticals, cosmetics and lubricants 5. Phenoxyethanol (EU), or PE, is the most commonly used globally-approved preservative in personal care formulations. It is very easy to use in various types of formulations and is chemically stable. Phenoxyethanol is a colorless, clear, oily liquid with a faint aromatic odor at room temperature and a low water solubility and evaporation rate. It is produced by reacting phenol (EU) and ethylene oxide (EU) at a high temperature and pressure. This substance occurs naturally in green tea (EU) 6.  According to the European Union Cosmetics Regulation (EC) n.1223/2009, phenoxyethanol is authorized as a preservative in cosmetic formulations at a maximum concentration of 1.0% 8. Phenoxyethanol has been classified as an antimicrobial and preservative by Health Canada 7. It has also been used in vaccines and shown to inactivate bacteria, and several types of yeast 2. Antimicrobial agent used as a preservative in cosmetics 4, 5, 8. This substance has broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity against bacteria, yeasts, and mold 6. Phenoxyethanol has antibacterial properties and is effective against strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosa even in the presence of 20% serum. It not as effective against Proteus vulgaris, other gram-negative organisms, and gram-positive organisms. Phenoxyethanol has been used as a preservative at a concentration of 1%. A wider spectrum of antimicrobial activity is achieved with preservative mixtures of phenoxyethanol and hydroxybenzoates. Phenoxyethanol may be used as a 2.2% solution or a 2% cream for the treatment of superficial wounds, burns, or abscesses infected by Pseudomonas aeruginosa. In skin infection, derivatives of phenoxyethanol are used in combination with either cyclic acid or zinc undecenoate 7. A pharmacokinetic study of phenoxyethanol was performed using a mass spectrometry model for simultaneous analysis of phenoxyethanol (PE) and its major metabolite, phenoxyacetic acid (PAA), in rat plasma, urine, and 7 different tissues 10.  The absolute topical bioavailability of PE was 75.4% and 76.0% for emulsion and lotion, respectively. Conversion of PE to PAA was extensive, with the average AUCPAA-to-AUCPE ratio being 4.4 and 5.3 for emulsion and lotion, respectively. The steady-state tissue-to-plasma PE concentration ratio (Kp) was higher than unity for kidney, spleen, heart, brain, and testis and was lower (0.6) for lung and liver, while the metabolite Kp ratio was higher than unity for kidney, liver, lung, and testis and was lower (0.3) for other tissues 10. The fate of phenoxyethanol in rats and humans has been investigated 4. The rate of intestinal absorption was rapid, with 60-70% of the excreted (14)C detected at 3 hours and > 95% of the total 4-day urinary (14)C detected within the first 24 hr. Trace amounts of radioactivity were detected in feces. Four days after dosing, only trace amounts of radioactivity remained in the carcass, primarily in the liver (< 0.2% of the dose), fat and muscle. At the 4 day point, the (14)C concentration in blood was measured to be only 0.001 4. The major metabolite of phenoxyethanol is phenoxyacetic acid 10. The fate of phenoxyethanol in rats and humans has been investigated. More than 90% of an oral dose of 16, 27 or 160 mg/kg body weight of (2-(14)C)phenoxyethanol administered to male Colworth rats by was excreted in the urine within 24 hours of administration. A female rat also excreted about 90% of a dose of 27 mg/kg body weight in the urine within 24 hours. About 2% and 1.3% of the ingested dose was recovered from the exhaled air of female and male rats, respectively 4. LC50 oral, rat; 1980 mg/kg MSDS.
Protein C | DrugBank Online Protein C is an endogenously occurring plasma protein that plays a key role within the coagulation cascade. Protein C is a zymogen, or enzyme precursor, of a vitamin K-dependent anticoagulant glycoprotein (serine protease) that is synthesized in the liver. It is converted by the thrombin/thrombomodulin-complex on the endothelial cell surface to Activated Protein C (APC). Once in its activated form, APC functions as a serine protease with potent anticoagulant effects, especially in the presence of its cofactor protein S. APC exerts its effect by inactivating essential components of the coagulation cascade (specifically factors V and VIII), which leads to a decrease in thrombin formation, and therefore a reduction in clot formation.  The Protein C pathway provides a natural mechanism for control of the coagulation system and prevention of excessive procoagulant responses to activating stimuli. A lack of protein C in the body would lead to unchecked coagulation activation, resulting in thrombin generation and intravascular clot formation. Protein C is available in concentrated form as the product Ceprotin, which is indicated for use in pediatric and adult patients with severe congenital protein C deficiency for the prevention and treatment of venous thrombosis and purpura fulminans. Protein C concentrate is indicated for pediatric and adult patients with severe congenital protein C deficiency for the prevention and treatment of venous thrombosis and purpura fulminans.2 It is also found as a component of some prothrombin complex concentrate (i.e. Factor IX Complex (Human)) formulations, such as Kcentra.3 In clinical studies, the intravenous administration of Protein C Concentrate demonstrated a temporary increase, within approximately half an hour of administration, in plasma levels of APC. Replacement of protein C in protein C-deficient patients is expected to control or, if given prophylactically, to prevent thrombotic complications.2 Protein C is an endogenously occurring plasma protein that plays a key role within the coagulation cascade. Also known as blood coagulation factor XIV, Protein C is a zymogen, or enzyme precursor, of a vitamin K-dependent anticoagulant glycoprotein (serine protease) that is synthesized in the liver. It is converted by the thrombin/thrombomodulin-complex on the endothelial cell surface to Activated Protein C (APC). Once in its activated form, APC functions as a serine protease with potent anticoagulant effects, especially in the presence of its cofactor protein S. APC exerts its effect by inactivating essential components of the coagulation cascade (specifically factors V and VIII), which leads to a decrease in thrombin formation, and therefore a reduction in clot formation.  Cmax = 110 IU/dL
Tmax = 0.50 hr Volume of distribution at steady state = 0.74 dL/kg Initial half life = 7.8 hr
Dipyrithione | DrugBank Online Dipyrithione is a pyrithione derivate used as bactericide and fungicide. The drug was marketed under the name Crimanex in the form of shampoo for the treatment of dandruff, however it is no longer available on the manufacturer website (Drossa Pharm 6. It is currently used as a pesticide 3. Interestingly, dipyrithione has been studied and shown to have cytotoxic and potent broad-spectrum antitumor activity, which suggests a potential basis for an anticancer drug development 1. Pyrithione derivatives, such as Pyrithione and sodium pyrithione, are widely used as cosmetic preservatives and as anti-dandruff agents in shampoos 1. It may be combined with other ingredients, such as triclosan to serve as antifungal and antibacterial skin treatments 9. Dandruff is a common scalp disease affecting >40% of the world's adult population, and may be caused by fungi such as Malassezia globosa and M. restricta 4. Scalp dandruff 5 This drug decreases or eliminates dandruff from the scalp, which is caused by various types of fungi 6, 9. This drug is a fungicidal agent 6, 1.
Tetradecyl hydrogen sulfate (ester) | DrugBank Online Sodium tetradecyl sulfate is an anionic surface-active agent which is used for its wetting properties in the industry and is also used in medicine as a blood vessel irritant and sclerosing agent for hemorrhoids and varicose veins 2. Sodium tetradecyl sulfate has been widely used since the 1950s, and in 1978 the first successful report of injecting a 1% solution into spider angiomas in 144 patients was made. Also noted was an unspecified number of episodes of epidermal necrosis without significant long-term effects and a 30% incidence of post-sclerosis pigmentation that resolved within a few months 3. Sotradecol (sodium tetradecyl sulfate injection) is indicated in the treatment of small, uncomplicated varicose veins of the legs showing simple dilation, with competent valves 1. Sodium tetradecyl sulfate has been designated as an orphan drug by the FDA for the treatment of gastrointestinal bleeding due to esophageal varices 8. Telangiectasias or varicose veins occur in about 33% of adult women and about 15% of adult men. Sclerotherapy with sotradecol is widely used in the treatment of varicose veins 7. Sotradecol (sodium tetradecyl sulfate injection) is a sclerosing agent. Intravenous (IV) injection of this agent causes blood vessel intima inflammation and thrombus formation. This normally occludes the injected vein, leading to a series of events. Subsequent formation of fibrous tissue results in partial or complete vein obliteration that may be temporary or permanent 1. When injected directly into a vein, sodium tetradecyl sulfate causes intimal inflammation and venous thrombus formation, which then results in occlusion of the vein. Following this sequence of events, fibrous tissue forms and causes partial to complete obliteration of the vein, which may be temporary or permanent. An important role of this drug, as well as other sclerosing agents, is to control active hemorrhage and encourage hemostasis. This may be due to the esophageal and vascular smooth muscle spasm induced by the sclerosing agent 5.  During acute and active bleeding, the sodium tetradecyl sulfate injected directly into the esophageal varices may dissipate rapidly, as the varices have a much higher blood volume/flow rate and no functioning valves 5. The mechanical compression effect of submucosal edema, created by the injection of sclerosing agents, may also be responsible for acute hemostasis 5. In humans, a large proportion (75%) of an injected dose of radiolabelled 3% sodium tetradecyl sulfate rapidly disappeared from the empty varicose vein injection site into communicating blood vessels with rapid entry into the deep veins of the calf 9. In rats, at 72 hours after intravenous dosing of radiolabelled sodium tetradecyl sulfate, tissue levels of radiolabelled matter found in sample tissues (liver, kidney, lipid and skeletal muscle) were measured as very low. Although there was some evidence of radiolabel associated with the injection site, the levels were negligible 9. After an intravenously administered radiolabelled dose, 70% of the drug was recovered in the urine of rats within 24 hours post-dosing 9. At the end of the 72 hour post-dose period, 73.5% of the radiolabel had been recovered from the urine and 18.2% recovered from the faeces 9. The intravenous LD50 of sodium tetradecyl sulfate in mice is 90 ± 5 mg/kg 1. In the rat, the acute intravenous LD50 of sodium tetradecyl sulfate is estimated at 72 mg/kg and 108 mg/kg 1. Adverse events are below: Deep venous thrombosis Because of the risk of deep vein thrombosis, patients must be evaluated for valvular competency and deep venous patency before treatment is initiated and slow injections of a small volume (< 2 mL) should be injected. It is recommended that patients be monitored post-treatment for both deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism 12. Air embolism Stroke, transient ischemic attack, myocardial infarction, and impaired cardiac function have been associated with tetradecyl sulfate administration. Such sequelae may be caused by air embolism 5. Local reaction Local reactions including pain, itching or ulceration at the site of injection with permanent discoloration may remain along the path of the treated/sclerosed vein segment. Sloughing and/or necrosis of surrounding tissue may occur following extravasation from the injection site 1. Allergic reactions  Hives, asthma, hay fever and anaphylactic shock have been reported with use of this drug 1.  *Mild systemic reactions * Headache, nausea and vomiting 1. Death
Sodium fluoride F-18 | DrugBank Online Sodium Fluoride F 18 Injection is a positron emitting radiopharmaceutical, no-carrier added. It contains radioactive fluoride F 18 that is used for diagnostic purposes in conjunction with positron emission tomography (PET) imaging and is administered by intravenous injection. Its primary indication is for bone imaging. Increased deposition around joints can occur in arthritis and following trauma and increased deposition in bone has been noted around fracture sites, in osteomyelitis, fibrous dysplasia, spondylitis tuberculosa, and Paget's disease. No adverse reactions have been reported.
Propolis wax | DrugBank Online Propolis wax is naturally produced by honeybees by mixing the resin or exudate collected from tree buds, sap flows, or other botanical sources with beeswax that contains fatty acids and bee enzymes. Propolis itself contains various chemical compounds including flavonoids, terpenoids, aldehydes, aromatic acids, aliphatic alcohols and ethers, amino acids, and sugars.
Chloramine-T | DrugBank Online Tosylchloramide, also known as chloramine-T, is a chlorinated and deprotonated sulfonamide used as a mild disinfectant. It is not stable in the water dissolved form.
Lesinurad | DrugBank Online Lesinurad is an oral uric acid transporter 1 (URAT1) inhibitor indicated for the treatment of hyperuricemia associated with gout. It reduces serum uric acid concentration through the inhibition of URAT1, an enzyme responsible for reuptake of uric acid from the renal tubule, and OAT4, another uric acid transporter associated with diuretic-induced hyperuricemia. Marketed as the product Zurampic, it is indicated for use in combination with a xanthine oxidase inhibitor for the treatment of hyperuricemia associated with gout in
Thiocolchicoside | DrugBank Online Thiocolchicoside is a semi-synthetic derivative of the colchicine, a natural anti-inflammatory glycoside which originates from the flower seeds of superba gloriosa. It is a muscle relaxant with anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects. It has potent convulsant activity and should not be administered to individuals prone to seizures 19. Thiocolchicoside is a skeletal muscle-relaxant drug used in the treatment of orthopedic, traumatic and rheumatologic disorders 18. It is indicated as an adjuvant drug in the treatment of painful muscle contractures and is indicated in acute spinal pathology, for adults and adolescents 16 years of age and older 15. Recent studies have examined its effect on muscle tone, stiffness, contractures, and soreness experienced by athletes during sporting competitions 20. Thiocholchicoside is a muscle relaxing agent that works through selective binding to the GABA-A receptor. It prevents muscle contractions by activating the GABA inhibitory motor pathway 18. This medication acts as a competitive GABA receptor antagonist and inhibits glycine receptors with similar potency as nicotinic acetylcholine receptors. It has powerful convulsant activity and should not be used in individuals at risk for seizures 18,23. Used in combination with glafenine and meprobamate to tranquilize patients undergoing hysterosalpingography. In the treatment of painful muscle spasms. Thiocolchicoside acts both in contractures with a central cause and in contractures of reflex type, rheumatic and traumatic. It also alleviates symptoms of spastic sequelae of hemiparesis, Parkinson's disease and iatrogenic Parkinson symptoms, particularly neurodyslectic syndrome. Some other conditions that may benefit from this medication are acute and chronic lumbar and sciatic pain, cervico-brachial neuralgia, persistent torticollis, post-traumatic and post-operative pain 18. Thiocolchicoside, is a synthetic sulfur derivative of colchicoside, a naturally occurring glucoside contained in the Colchicum autumnale plant. Thiocolchicoside has a selective and potent afﬁnity for g-aminobutyric acid A (GABA-A) receptors and acts on muscular contractures by activating the GABA inhibitory pathways thereby behaving as a potent muscle relaxant 18. Gamma-aminobutyric acid (GABA) is the main inhibitory neurotransmitter in the human cortex 11. GABAergic neurons are involved in myorelaxation, anxiolytic treatment, sedation, and anesthetics. GABA can also modulate heart rate and blood pressure. It also has an affinity for the inhibitory glycine receptors (i.e., have glycomimetic and GABA mimetic activity), therefore acts as a muscle relaxant. Glycine is an inhibitory neurotransmitter and acts as an allosteric regulator of NMDA (N-methyl-D-aspartate) receptors. It is involved in the processing of motor and sensory data, thereby regulating movement, vision, and audition. Inhibitory neurotransmitter in spinal cord, allosteric regulator of NMDA receptors 19,12. In one study, thiocolchicoside inhibited the function of recombinant human strychnine-sensitive glycine receptors composed of the alpha1 subunit with a potency (median inhibitory concentration of 47 microM) lower than that apparent with recombinant GABA(A) receptors. The drug also inhibited the function of human nicotinic acetylcholine receptors made of the alpha4 and beta2 subunits, however, this effect was partial and moreover only apparent at high concentrations. Thiocolchicoside demonstrated no effect on the function of 5-HT(3A) serotonin receptors 11. Oral bioavailability is ~25%
Human Rho(D) immune globulin | DrugBank Online Human Rho(D) immune globulin is a medicine given by intramuscular or intravenous injection that is used to prevent the immunological condition known as Rh disease (or hemolytic disease of newborn). Rho (D) immune globulin is available as a sterile, lyophilized or liquid gamma globulin (IgG) fraction containing antibodies to the Rh0 (D) antigen (D antigen) under the name Rhophylac (IM/IV). Immune globullin was purified via ion-exchange chromatography method and prepared from pools of human plasma, where the donors are Rho (D)-negative donors who have been immunized with Rho(D)-positive RBCs. It was approved by FDA as treatment for suppression of rhesus (Rh) isoimmunization or chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) in adults. Indicated for suppression of rhesus (Rh) isoimmunization in nonsensitized Rho (D)-negative women with an Rh-incompatible pregnancy, or in Rho (D)-negative individuals transfused with Rh0(D)-positive red blood cells (RBCs) or blood components containing Rh0(D)-positive RBCs. Also indicated in Rh0(D)-positive, non-splenectomized adult patients with chronic immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) to raise platelet counts. 15000 international unit (IU) contains sufficient anti-Rho (D) to effectively suppress the immunizing potential of approximately 17mL of Rho (D) (D-positive) red blood cells 12. Human Rho(D) immune globulin therapy prevents immunization to Rho (D)-positive red blood cells (RBC) by inducing antibody-mediated immunosuppression (AMIS) effectively clearing Rho-positive RBCs by rapidly binding to them. This prevents Rho-negative mothers to produce alloantibodies to paternally inherited RhD antigen expressed on fetal erythrocytes and cause haemolytic diseases of the newborn.
Rho immune globulin increase platelet counts and reduce bleeding in Rho-positive patients with ITP by inhibiting autoantibody-mediated platelet clearance.  The mechanism of action of Rho(D) immune globulin therapy is unclear. It is suggested that Rho immune globulin predominantly prevents the antibody response during incompatible pregnancy by accelerating the phagocytosis of RBC's and clearance from the circulation before the recognition by the immune system. IgG-opsonized RBCs may interact with activating IgG receptors (FcγRs) on effector cells and elicit phagocytosis via mononuclear phagocytic system, primarily by macrophages. IgG may also stimulate complement activation on the RBC surface, followed by RBC lysis or complement receptor-mediated phagocytosis but to smaller extent 4. Rho-specific IgG may inhibit the late stages of B cell activation by being internalized with Rho antigen by B cells, which alters the antigen processing and presentation. In response to the IgG-antigen complex formation, the immune globulin enhances the presentation of specific peptides and proliferation of epitope-specific T cells 4.
Antithrombin III human | DrugBank Online A plasma alpha 2 glycoprotein that accounts for the major antithrombin activity of normal plasma and also inhibits several other enzymes. It is a member of the serpin superfamily. Antithrombin III human is a human antithrombin (AT) indicated in patients with hereditary antithrombin deficiency for the treatment and prevention of thromboembolism and prevention of peri-operative and peri-partum thromboembolism Hereditary AT deficiency causes an increased risk of venous thromboembolism (VTE). During high-risk situations such as surgery or trauma or for pregnant women, during the peri-partum period, the risk of development of VTEs as compared to the normal population in these situations is increased by a factor 10 to 50. In hereditary antithrombin deficient patients ATryn restores (normalize) plasma AT activity levels during peri-operative and peri-partum periods.  Antithrombin, an alpha2-glycoprotein of molecular weight 58,000, is normally present in human plasma at a concentration of approximately 12.5 mg/dL and is the major plasma inhibitor of thrombin. Inactivation of thrombin by AT occurs by formation of a covalent bond resulting in an inactive 1:1 stoichiometric complex between the two, involving an interaction of the active serine of thrombin and an arginine reactive site on AT. AT is also capable of inactivating other components of the coagulation cascade including factors IXa, Xa, XIa, and XIIa, as well as plasmin. The neutralization rate of serine proteases by AT proceeds slowly in the absence of heparin, but is greatly accelerated in the presence of heparin. As the therapeutic antithrombotic effect of heparin is mediated by AT, heparin in vivo is ineffective in the absence or near absence of AT.
Dequalinium | DrugBank Online Dequalinium is a quaternary ammonium cation that contains two quaternary quinolinium units linked by an N-decylene chain. It is an antiseptic and disinfectant agent with a broad bactericidal and fungicidal activity. It is most commonly available as a dichloride salt but is available as other various salts as well. It is used in wound dressings and mouth infections and may also have antifungal action, but may associate with skin ulceration. Dequalinium chloride is used as an active ingredient in tablets as Fluomizin for vaginal bacterial infections and in topical bacteriostat formulation as Dequadin. It has been studied for use in treatment of malaria and acute promyelocytic leukemia. Its multiple mode of action is thought to reduce the risk of resistance of pathogens. Effective local treatment as vaginal tablets for infections such as fluor vaginalis, bacterial vaginosis, aerobic vaginitis, vulvo-vaginal candidiasis and trichomoniasis. Used as a topical antimicrobial agent.  Dequalinium is an antimicrobial against Gram negative and positive bacteria, yeast and protozoa. It primarily mediates this action by increasing the cell permeability with subsequent loss of enzyme activity under a rapid bactericidal and fungicidal action. The enzymatic inactivation initially might be reversible but becomes irreversible after a longer contact time between the drug and bacteria 1. The bactericidal and fungicidal effect of dequalinium chloride has been demonstrated to occur within 30–60 min 7. Dequalinium targets a broad spectrum of microorganisms including aerobic and anaerobic bacteria, as well as Candida species.  Dequalinium has a multiple mode of action. It disrupts the cell permeability of the bacteria by absorbing onto the bacterial cell surface and diffusing across the membrane. It also binds to the cytoplasmic membrane with subsequent formation of complexes and protein precipitation and lyses the membrane in adequate concentrations, perturbing osmotic exchange. Loss of normal enzymatic activity is achieved through several different processes. Denaturation of proteins results in inhibition of bacterial cell metabolism. Disruption of bacterial energy production is mediated through inhibition of glucose metabolism and inhibition of mitochondrial ATP synthesis via inhibition of bacterial F1-ATPase. Protein synthesis is also terminated at the level of ribosomes. Bacterial nucleic acids are also affected through direct binding of the drug to DNA in vitro, and precipitation of cytoplasmic material with nucleic acids being the most sensitive 1.
The cationic form of dequalinium accumulates in the mitochondria and promotes anticancer activity in human leukemia cells. It mediates a cytotoxic effect by altering redox balance in cells and downregulating Raf/MEK/ERK1/2 and PI3K/Akt signaling pathways in these cells which leads to cell death by apoptosis and/or necrosis 3,4,5.
Human Varicella-Zoster Immune Globulin | DrugBank Online Human Varicella-Zoster Immune Globulin is a solvent/detergent-treated sterile liquid preparation of purified human immune globulin G (IgG) containing antibodies to varicella zoster virus (anti-VZV). It is prepared from pools of healthy human donors' plasma via anion-exchange column chromatography and was approved in 2012 under the name VariZIG to reduce the disease severity in high-risk patients who lack evidence of immunity to varicella and for whom varicella vaccine is contraindicated. The therapeutic efficacy is proven if administered within 4 days of exposure to varicella zoster virus. Indicated for preventing and reducing the severity of chicken pox (varicella zoster virus) infections in high risk individuals within 4 days of exposure to varicella zoster virus. Varicella zoster immune globuline provides passive immunization for non-immune individuals exposed to VZV, reducing the severity of varicella infections.  Immunoglobulins are derived from human plasma and synthesized from plasma cells that recognize a broad spectrum of specific antigenic determinants 6.
Derived from a pool of healthy human plasma, Human Varicella-Zoster Immune Globulin is a solvent/detergent-treated sterile lyophilized preparation of purified human immune globulin G (IgG) containing antibodies to varicella zoster virus. The anti-VZV antibodies in VariZIG™ are thought to bind to proteins on the varicella virus; thereby, preventing or reducing the severity and progression of varicella infections.  Intravenous administration of varicella zoster antibodies tends to persist for 6 weeks or longer. Following intramuscular administration of varicella immune globulin products, varicella antibodies are detectable within 2-3 days. The peak levels of varicella antibodies is expected to occur within 3-7 days of VariZIG administration. Following intravenous administration of varicella zoster VZIG, anti-varicella zoster antibodies are expected to be quickly distributed between plasma and extravascular spaces with complete and immediate bioavailability. Intramuscular administration achieves nearly 100% bioavailability.  Immune globulins are metabolized in the reticuloendothelial system. Human Varicella-Zoster Immunoglobulin has a half-life of about 18-24 days following intravenous administration and 24-30 days following intramuscular administration.  Since the drug was prepared from human plasma pool, it may contain other infectious agents such as viruses and Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease (vCJD) agent.
Hepatitis B Vaccine (Recombinant) | DrugBank Online Hepatitis B Vaccine is an ingredient in the EMA-withdrawn product Quintanrix. It is marketed in Canada as Engerix B. It is also a part of Twinrix (Hep A/Hep B vaccine) available also in Canada.
The hepatitis B virus induces a severe form of viral hepatitis. Other causative agents are hepatitis A virus, and the non-A, non-B hepatitis viruses. Hepatitis D virus, a defective virus requiring the “keeper function” of the hepatitis B virus, occurs either as a co-infection or super-infection in a HBsAg carrier. Transmission of the virus occurs through percutaneous contact with contaminated blood, serum or plasma. Infection may also occur by the exposure of mucous surfaces, or intact or damaged skin to other body fluids such as saliva, mucosal secretions and semen. There is no specific treatment for hepatitis. The incubation period may be as long as 6 months, followed by a very complex clinical course of an acute or chronic nature, often leading to hospitalization. Viral hepatitis caused by hepatitis B virus is a major worldwide health problem, though the incidence and epidemiology vary widely among geographical areas and population subgroups. In Canada, the United States and Northern Europe, 4% to 6% of the population are infected during their lifetime (mostly young adults); between 5% and 10% of infections lead to persistent viremia (carrier state). Certain population subgroups in these areas, however, are at high risk (see Indications and Clinical Use). In Asia, infection often occurs early in life, leading to a hepatitis B marker prevalence of more than 70% in the general population and a carrier rate of up to 20%. It is estimated that the reservoir of persistent hepatitis B surface antigen carriers amounts to 350 million people worldwide. Carriers are at a high risk of developing chronic liver disease which may lead to cirrhosis or primary hepatocellular carcinoma. A significant reduction in the incidence of hepatocellular carcinoma has been observed in children aged 6 to14 years following a nationwide hepatitis B vaccination in Taiwan. This resulted from a significant decline in the prevalence of hepatitis B antigen, the persistence of which is an essential factor in the development of hepatocellular carcinoma. Vaccination against hepatitis B is expected in the long term to reduce the overall incidence of both hepatitis B and the chronic complications such as chronic active hepatitis and cirrhosis. Active immunization against hepatitis B virus infection. The vaccine will not protect against infection caused by hepatitis A and non-A non-B hepatitis viruses. As hepatitis D (caused by the delta agent) does not occur in the absence of hepatitis B infection or carrier state, it can be expected that hepatitis D will also be prevented by vaccination with hepatitis B virus vaccine. The vaccine can be administered at any age from birth onwards. It may be used to start a primary course of vaccination or as a booster dose. It may also be used to complete a primary course of vaccination started with plasma-derived or yeast-derived vaccines or as a booster dose in subjects who have previously received a primary course of vaccination with plasma-derived or yeast-derived vaccines. In areas of low prevalence of hepatitis B, vaccination is strongly recommended in subjects who are at increased risk of infection. These include the following groups: ENGERIX-B induces specific humoral antibodies against the surface antigen of hepatitis B virus (anti-HBs antibodies). An anti-HBs antibody titre above 10 IU/l correlates with protection to HBV infection. ENGERIX®-B induces specific humoral antibodies against HBsAg (anti-HBs antibodies). It is generally accepted that an anti-HBs titre greater than 10 IU/L correlates with protection against hepatitis B virus infection. More than 90% of healthy adults, children and neonates developed protective anti-HBs titres one month after completing a
Opicapone | DrugBank Online Opicapone is a potent, reversible, and peripherally-acting third-generation inhibitor of catechol-o-methyltransferase (COMT), an enzyme involved in the breakdown of various catecholamines including dopamine.4,5  In June 2016, the European Commission granted a marketing authorization valid throughout the European Union for OPC, indicated as adjunct therapy to levodopa and decarboxylase inhibitors in adult patients with Parkinson's disease and end-of-dose motor fluctuations.7 In April 2020, the FDA approved the use of opicapone as adjunctive treatment to levodopa/carbidopa in patients with Parkinson’s disease (PD) experiencing “off” episodes.13 Opicapone is marketed as, under the brand name Ongentys as once-daily oral capsules. Almost all individuals with Parkinson’s disease whom are treated with levodopa plus a dopa decarboxylase (DDC) inhibitor (eg carbidopa) will develop motor complications in time. The initial step in the management is changing the levodopa/DDC inhibitor dosage and the use of adjunct drugs. Various options include supplementing with a dopamine agonist, a monoamine oxidase B inhibitor (selegiline, rasagiline), a catechol-O-methyl transferase (COMT) inhibitor, or amantadine, or using a modified-release formulation of levodopa 6. The newest adjunctive option is opicapone. This drug is a peripherally selective reversible COMT inhibitor that offers the benefit of a duration of action exceeding 24h, allowing for once-daily administration 6. Opicapone demonstrates the lowest risk for cytotoxicity in comparison with other catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitors [L2337]. Opicapone is approved as an adjunctive therapy in adults with Parkinson’s disease and end-of-dose motor fluctuations whose symptoms cannot be stabilized on levodopa/dopa decarboxylase inhibitor combinations 6. Opicapone (OPC) is a powerful, reversible, and strictly peripheral third-generation catechol-O-methyltransferase inhibitor (COMT) inhibitor, which improves levodopa (L-Dopa) availability. It serves as adjunct therapy for L-Dopa treated patients with Parkinson's disease and motor fluctuations [L2337]. Opicapone showed a significant (>90%) and long-lasting (>24 hours) COMT inhibition in healthy subjects after administration of a 50 mg dose 10. In 14- to 15-week, double-blind, multinational trials and in 1-year, open-label studies, opicapone demonstrated to be an effective and generally well tolerated adjunct therapy to L-Dopa plus a dopa decarboxylase inhibitor and other Parkinson disease therapy. During the double-blind phase, adjunctive opicapone 50 mg once daily provided significantly greater improvements in motor fluctuations than placebo, with these improvements noninferior to those with entacapone. These beneficial improvements in motor fluctuations with opicapone were maintained in patients who continued adjunctive opicapone during the extension studies, with patients who switched from placebo or entacapone to opicapone experiencing significant improvements in motor fluctuations during this year 1. Opicapone is a peripheral, selective and reversible catechol-O-methyltransferase (COMT) inhibitor endowed with a high binding affinity (sub-picomolar) that results in a slow complex dissociation rate constant and long-term action (>24 hours) in vivo 10. In the presence of a DOPA decarboxylase inhibitor (DDCI), COMT acts as the primary metabolizing enzyme for levodopa, catalyzing the conversion to 3-O-methyldopa (3-OMD) in both the brain and periphery. In those taking levodopa and a peripheral DDCI, such as carbidopa or benserazide, opicapone augments levodopa plasma levels, thereby enhancing the efficacy of levodopa 10. Oral opicapone demonstrates linear, dose-dependent absorption. However, following simultaneous ingestion of a high-fat, high-calorie meal, the maximal plasma concentration is decreased [L2337]. tmax of 1.0 h to 2.5 h after once-daily multiple-dose administration of up to 50 mg opicapone 10. Approximately 30 L 12. One study showed small systemic accumulation after multiple-dosing 2. >99.7% 8 Sulphation appears to be the main metabolic pathway for this drug 3.
Isavuconazole | DrugBank Online Isavuconazole is an triazole antifungal with broad spectrum of activity and good safety profile 1. It is approved by the FDA and EMA for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis and mucormycosis. It works by inhibiting fungal cell membrane synthesis. Invasive fungal infections pose significant clinical challenges for patients, especially those who are immunocompromised. In vitro, most of the Candida species, most Aspergillus species, Mucorales, Cryptococcus spp., Fusarium species, dermatophytes and dimorphic fungi displayed susceptibility to isavuconzaole 3. Resistance to isavuconazole has been associated with the mutation in the target gene CYP51 Label. Cross-resistance between isavuconazole and other azoles was also proposed although the clinical relevance is unclear Label.  As isavuconazole displays low water solubility, it is found as an active ingredient of its prodrug, Isavuconazonium. The prodrug formulation of isavuconazole is FDA- and EMA-approved and is marketed under the trade name Cresemba for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis and mucormycosis as oral or intravenous administration. The intravenous formulation is cyclodextrin-free which gives isavuconazole an advantage over other azole antifungals that requires cyclodextrin for facilitating drug solubility; this is because cyclodextrin has a potential for nephrotoxicity 3. It is proposed that the intravenous and oral dosing can be used interchangeably 4, without the need for a repeat loading dose when transitioning from an IV to an oral formulation 1. Isavuconazonium displays excellent water solubility for intravenous formulations, good absorption, and enhanced oral bioavailability 1. Following administration, isavuconazonium undergoes biotransformation to form the active moiety, isavuconazole, for the antifungal actions. Isavucoanzole exhibits antifungal activity against most strains of Aspergillus flavus, Aspergillus fumigatus, Aspergillus niger, and Mucorales such as Rhizopus oryzae and Mucormycetes species in vivo and in vitro Label. In a cardiac electrophysiology study involving healthy subjects, isavuconazole induced dose-related shortening of the QTc interval but the additive effect of isavuconazole with other QTc-prolonging drug is unknown Label.  Isavuconazole displays fungicidal actions by disrupting the biosynthesis of ergosterol, which is a key component of fungal cell membrane. It inhibits cytochrome P-450 dependent enzyme lanosterol 14-alpha-demethylase that mediates the conversion of lanosterol to ergosterol. The side arm of of the active isavuconazole molecule allows for greater affinity for the binding pocket in the fungal CYP51 protein by orienting the triazole ring of the molecule to engage with the heme moiety at the bottom of the binding pocket 1,3. This explains the wide antifungal spectrum of isavuconazole and possible cross-resistance to other triazoles 1,3. As a result of lanosterol 14-alpha-demethylase inhibition, toxic methylated sterol precursors such as 14-α-methylated lanosterol, 4,14-dimethylzymosterol, and 24-methylenedihydrolanosterol alter the function of fungal membrane and accumulate within the fungal cytoplasm 3. Depletion of ergosterol within the fungal cell membrane leads to decreased structural integrity and function of the cell membrane, inhibited fungal cell growth and replication 1, and ultimately cell death. Mammalian cell demethylation is less sensitive to isavuconazole inhibition Label. Mechanism of resistance and reduced susceptibility to isavuconazole arises from mutations in the fungal cyp51A and cyp51B genes coding for the target protein lanosterol 14-alpha-demethylase 4. Other multiple mechanisms leading to resistance, including changes in sterol profile and elevated efflux pump activity of fungal species, cannot be excluded Label. Following oral administration of 200 mg isavuconazole, the mean peak plasma concentration (Cmax) at steady state was 7499 ng/mL. Cmax following oral administration of 600 mg isavuconazole was 20028 ng/mL Label. It is proposed that the Cmax at steady state is reached approximately 2–3 hours after single and multiple dosing of isavuconazole Label. Administration of 400 mg of oral and intravenous isavuconazole resulted in mean AUC of 189462.8 hng/mL and 193906.8 hng/mL, respectively 4. While isavuconazole can be administered with or without food, concurrent consumption of a high-fat meal reduced oral isavuconazole Cmax by 9% and increased AUC by 9% Label. The absolute bioavailability of isavuconazole following oral administration of a single dose of isavuconazole is 98% Label.  The mean steady state volume of distribution (Vss) was approximately 450 L following intravenous administration Label. Isavuconazole is highly protein bound (greater than 99%), predominantly to albumin Label. Following rapid conversion of the prodrug isavuconazonium to isavuconazole via esterase-mediated hydrolysis, a number of minor metabolites were identified in addition to the active moiety itself and the inactive cleavage product of isavuconazonium. However, no individual metabolite was observed with an AUC greater than 10% of total radio-labeled material Label.
Selumetinib | DrugBank Online Activation of the Raf-MEK-ERK signaling pathway is known to be implemented in several types of malignancies, thus, mitogen-activated protein kinase kinase (MEK) inhibitors such as selumetinib are important tools that can target the problematic overactivity of this pathway.6
Encorafenib | DrugBank Online Encorafenib, also known as BRAFTOVI, is a kinase inhibitor. Encorafenib inhibits BRAF gene, which encodes for B-raf protein, which is a proto-oncogene involved in various genetic mutations Label. This protein plays a role in regulating the MAP kinase/ERK signaling pathway, which impacts cell division, differentiation, and secretion. Mutations in this gene, most frequently the V600E mutation, are the most commonly identified cancer-causing mutations in melanoma, and have been isolated in various other cancers as well, including non-Hodgkin lymphoma, colorectal cancer, thyroid carcinoma, non-small cell lung carcinoma, hairy cell leukemia and adenocarcinoma of the lung 6. On June 27, 2018, the Food and Drug Administration approved encorafenib and Binimetinib (BRAFTOVI and MEKTOVI, Array BioPharma Inc.) in combination for patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAF V600E or V600K mutation, as detected by an FDA-approved test Label. Used in combination with Binimetinib in metastatic melanoma with a BRAF V600E or V600K mutation, as detected by an FDA-approved test 5. Encorafenib has shown improved efficacy in the treatment of metastatic melanoma 3. Encorafenib, a selective BRAF inhibitor (BRAFi), has a pharmacologic profile that is distinct from that of other clinically active BRAFis 7. Once-daily dosing of single-agent encorafenib has a distinct tolerability profile and shows varying antitumor activity across BRAFi-pretreated and BRAFi-naïve patients with advanced/metastatic stage melanoma 7. Encorafenib is a kinase inhibitor that specifically targets BRAF V600E, as well as wild-type BRAF and CRAF while tested with in vitro cell-free assays with IC50 values of 0.35, 0.47, and 0.3 nM, respectively. Mutations in the BRAF gene, including BRAF V600E, result in activated BRAF kinases that mahy stimulate tumor cell growth. Encorafenib is able to bind to other kinases in vitro including JNK1, JNK2, JNK3, LIMK1, LIMK2, MEK4, and STK36 and significantly reduce ligand binding to these kinases at clinically achievable concentrations (≤ 0.9 μM) Label. In efficacy studies, encorafenib inhibited the in vitro cell growth of tumor cell lines that express BRAF V600 E, D, and K mutations. In mice implanted with tumor cells expressing the BRAF V600E mutation, encorafenib induced tumor regressions associated with RAF/MEK/ERK pathway suppression Label. Encorafenib and binimetinib target two different kinases in the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway. Compared with either drug alone, co-administration of encorafenib and binimetinib result in greater anti-proliferative activity in vitro in BRAF mutation-positive cell lines and greater anti-tumor activity with respect to tumor growth inhibition in BRAF V600E mutant human melanoma xenograft studies in mice. In addition to the above, the combination of encorafenib and binimetinib acted to delay the emergence of resistance in BRAF V600E mutant human melanoma xenografts in mice compared with the administration of either drug alone Label. After oral administration, the median Tmax of encorafenib is 2 hours. At least 86% of the dose is absorbed.
Ribociclib | DrugBank Online Ribociclib is a selective cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, a class of drugs that help slow the progression of cancer by inhibiting two proteins called cyclin-dependent kinase 4 and 6 (CDK4/6). These proteins, when over-activated, can enable cancer cells to grow and divide too quickly. Targeting CDK4/6 with enhanced precision may play a role in ensuring that cancer cells do not continue to replicate uncontrollably. Ribociclib was approved by the U.S. FDA in March, 2017 as Kisqali. Kisqali (ribociclib) is a selective cyclin-dependent kinase inhibitor, a class of drugs that help slow the progression of cancer by inhibiting two proteins called cyclin-dependent kinase 4 and 6 (CDK4/6). These proteins, when over-activated, can enable cancer cells to grow and divide too quickly. Targeting CDK4/6 with enhanced precision may play a role in ensuring that cancer cells do not continue to replicate uncontrollably. Inhibition of cyclin-dependent kinase 4 and 6 (CDK4/6) may provide protection against oncogenic processes in specific tissue types. For example, CDK4 is not required for normal mammary tissue development based on knockout mouse studies, but it is needed for growth of Ras-induced mammary tumors, suggesting a potential therapeutic window for treatment with lower toxicity.
Ribociclib was reported to be a most selective CDK4/6 inhibitor and to have dose dependent antitumor activity in a number of preclinical models. It inhibited growth of tumor cells by arresting the cells at the G1 checkpoint, which prevents the tumor cells from proliferating. Ribociclib is orally bioavailable, highly selective inhibitor of CDK4/6 kinases with inhibitory IC50 concentrations in the low nanomolar range.
Icotinib | DrugBank Online Icotinib is a potent and specific epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI)
Icotinib was approved in China by the SFDA in June, 2011 and in January 2014, Beta Pharma, Inc. was given a “May Proceed” from the US FDA to conduct a Phase I study for the evaluation of icotinib as a treatment of EGFR+ Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC). Icotinib hydrochloride is a novel epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)–tyrosine kinase inhibitor, exhibits encouraging efficacy and tolerability in patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) who failed previous chemotherapy. In vitro: Icotinib inhibits EGFR activity in a dose-dependent manner, with an IC50 value of 5 nM and complete inhibition at 62.5 nM. Icotinib selectively solely inhibits the EGFR members including the wild type and mutants with inhibition efficacies of 61-99%. Icotinib blocks EGFR-mediated intracellular tyrosine phosphorylation in human epidermoid carcinoma A431 cells in a dose-dependent manner. Meanwhile, in the proliferation assay performed on A431, BGC-823, A549, H460, HCT8, KB and Bel-7402 cell lines, it was found that the relative sensitivity of cell lines to Icotinib is A431 > BGC-823 > A549 > H460 > KB > HCT8 and Bel-7402. Icotinib exhibits a broad spectrum of antitumor activity and it is especially effective against tumors expressing higher levels of EGFR.
Niraparib | DrugBank Online Niraparib is an orally active PARP inhibitor developed by Tesaro to treat ovarian cancer. FDA approval on March 2017. Niraparib is indicated for the maintenance treatment of adult patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian, fallopian tube, or primary peritoneal cancer who are in complete or partial response to platinum-based chemotherapy Cardiovascular Effects:
Niraparib has the potential to cause effects on pulse rate and blood pressure in patients receiving the recommended dose, which may be related to pharmacological inhibition of the dopamine transporter (DAT), norepinephrine transporter (NET) and serotonin transporter (SERT).
In the NOVA study, mean pulse rate and blood pressure increased over baseline in the niraparib arm relative to the placebo arm at all on-study assessments. Mean greatest increases from baseline in pulse rate on treatment were 24.1 and 15.8 beats/min in the niraparib and placebo arms, respectively. Mean greatest increases from baseline in systolic blood pressure on treatment were 24.5 and 18.3 mmHg in the niraparib and placebo arms, respectively. Mean greatest increases from baseline in diastolic blood pressure on treatment were 16.5 and 11.6 mmHg in the niraparib and placebo arms, respectively.
Cardiac Electrophysiology
The potential for QTc prolongation with niraparib was evaluated in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial in cancer patients (367 patients on niraparib and 179 patients on placebo). No large changes in the mean QTc interval (>20 ms) were detected in the trial following the treatment of niraparib 300 mg once daily.  Niraparib is an inhibitor of poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) enzymes, PARP-1 and PARP-2, which play a role in DNA repair. In vitro studies have shown that niraparib-induced cytotoxicity may involve inhibition of PARP enzymatic activity and increased formation of PARP-DNA complexes resulting in DNA damage, apoptosis and cell death. Increased niraparib-induced cytotoxicity was observed in tumor cell lines with or without deficiencies in BRCA1/2. Niraparib decreased tumor growth in mouse xenograft models of human cancer cell lines with deficiencies in BRCA1/2 and in human patient-derived xenograft tumor models with homologous recombination deficiency that had either mutated or wild type BRCA1/2.  The absolute bioavailability of niraparib is approximately 73%. Following oral administration of niraparib, peak plasma concentration, Cmax, is reached within 3 hours. Concomitant administration of a high fat meal (800-1,000 calories with approximately 50% of total caloric content of the meal from fat) did not significantly affect the pharmacokinetics of niraparib.
Bictegravir | DrugBank Online Bictegravir is a recently approved investigational drug that has been used in trials studying the treatment of HIV-1 and HIV-2 infection. It has been approved for HIV-1 monotherapy combined with 2 other antiretrovirals in a single tablet. Bictegravir is indicated in the management of HIV-1 infection in patients not previously treated with antiretroviral therapy. Additionally, Bictegravir is indicated in the management of HIV-1 infection in patients who are virologically suppressed (HIV-1 RNA <50 c/mL) on a regular antiretroviral regimen for a minimum of three months without a history of failure in treatment and no known factors associated with the resistance to the individual components of the medication. It is used in combination with tenofovir and emtricitabine 3,4. Bictegravir is an HIV-1 integrase strand transfer inhibitor (INSTI). Bictegravir (BIC) inhibits HIV-1 virus replication into the human genome. It can be taken once daily without additional dosing 2,3,4,5. Bictegravir (BIC) inhibits strand transfer of viral DNA into the host genome and thereby prevents HIV-1 replication 5.  This single dose medication inhibits the strand transfer of viral DNA into the human genome, preventing HIV-1 virus replication and propagation 2. In vitro, bictegravir has shown powerful antiviral activity against HIV-2 and various subtypes of HIV-1. It has shown synergistic effects when combined with other ARVs, including tenofovir alafenamide (TAF), emtricitabine (FTC), and darunavir (DRV) Label. The three components of the first USA approved medication ( trade name: Biktarvy ) are as follows: Bictegravir:
integrase strand transfer inhibitor; INSTI), an HIV-1 encoded enzyme necessary for viral replication. Inhibition of the integrase enzyme prevents the integration of HIV-1 into host DNA, blocking the conversion of the HIV-1 provirus and progression of the virus Label.  Emtricitabine: FTC, is phosphorylated by cellular enzymes to form emtricitabine 5'-triphosphate. Emtricitabine is phosphorylated to form emtricitabine 5'-triphosphate intracellularly. This metabolite inhibits the activity of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) reverse transcriptase by competing with the substrate deoxycytidine 5'-triphosphate and by incorporating itself into viral DNA preventing DNA chain elongation Label. Tenofovir Alafenamide: TAF is a phosphonamidate prodrug of tenofovir (2′-deoxyadenosine monophosphate analog).
Plasma exposure to TAF leads to leakage into cells and then TAF is intracellularly converted to tenofovir by hydrolysis by cathepsin. Tenofovir is subsequently phosphorylated by cellular kinases to the metabolite tenofovir diphosphate, which is the active form of the drug. Tenofovir diphosphate inhibits HIV-1 replication by incorporating into viral DNA by the HIV reverse transcriptase, resulting in DNA chain-termination. Tenofovir diphosphate also weakly inhibits mammalian DNA polymerases Label. Bictegravir is rapidly absorbed within the body. Tmax= 2.0-4.0h Label 0.2 L/Kg in humans 2 > 99 % bound to human plasma
Blood to plasma ratio: 0.64 Label,2 In a 10-day dose-ranging study, monotherapy (5 mg to 100 mg) once daily in adults who were not previously treated with bictegravir, the median half-life of BIC ranged from 15.9 h - 20.9 h 3,Label. BIC is mainly eliminated through UGT1A1 glucuronidation and CYP3A4 oxidation, equally 2. About 1% of the bictegravir dose is excreted in the urine, unchanged [1218,1219]. Bictegravir is mainly cleared by the kidneys. Those with renal clearance <30 should not take bictegravir Label Those with renal disease and creatinine clearance of <30 mL/min should not take bictegravir Label.
Danegaptide | DrugBank Online Danegaptide has been investigated for the treatment of Focus of Study is STEMI. Danegaptide, a small modified dipeptide, is a selective second generation gap junction modifier with oral bioavailability. Danegaptide prevents postoperative atrial fibrillation (AF) and chronic AF in large animal models. In a canine model of acute sterile pericarditis, Danegaptide significantly reduced AF duration and overall AF burden.
Ertugliflozin | DrugBank Online Ertugliflozin belongs to the class of potent and selective inhibitors of the sodium-dependent glucose cotransporters (SGLT), more specifically the type 2 which is responsible for about 90% of the glucose reabsorption from glomerulus.1 This drug was developed under the collaboration of Merck and Pfizer. It was FDA approved as monotherapy and in combination with sitagliptin or metformin hydrochloride on December 22, 2017.6 Ertugliflozin as a monotherapy is indicated to improve the glycemic control in adult patients with type 2 diabetes.Label Ertugliflozin, in combination with metformin hydrochloride, is indicated to improve glycemic control in patients with diabetes type 2 who are not controlled on a regimen of ertugliflozin or metformin or in patients who are already treated with both ertugliflozin and metformin.7 The administration of ertugliflozin in combination with sitagliptin is indicated to improve glycemic control in adult patients with type 2 diabetes when treatment with ertugliflozin and sitagliptin is appropriate.8 It is pointed out that the use of ertugliflozin has to be an adjunct therapy to the use of diet and exercise.
Beclomethasone dipropionate | DrugBank Online Beclomethasone dipropionate is a second-generation synthetic corticosteroid agent [A179842] and a diester of beclomethasone, which is structurally similar to dexamethasone.10 It is a prodrug of an active metabolite beclomethasone 17-monopropionate (17-BMP)1 which acts on the glucocorticoid receptor to mediates its therapeutic action. Beclomethasone dipropionate itself posesses weak glucocorticoid receptor binding affinity and is rapidly converted into 17-BMP upon administration.1 Formulations for oral inhalation, intranasal, and topical use are available for beclomethasone dipropionate. Beclomethasone dipropionate became first available in a pressurized metered-dose inhaler in 1972 and later in a dry powder inhaler and an aqueous nasal spray.1 Due to its anti-inflammatory, antipruritic, and anti-allergy properties, beclomethasone dipropionate is used in various inflammatory conditions, such as asthma, allergic rhinitis, and dermatoses to reduce symptoms. When inhaled, it is proposed that beclomethasone dipropionate remains active locally in the lung without causing significant side effects associated with systemic corticosteroids.8 Compared to earlier corticosteroids such as dexamethasone and prednisolone, beclomethasone dipropionate is reported to be less irritating to the nasal mucosa with a longer duration of action when administered intranasally.3 Indicated for oral inhalation use in the maintenance treatment of asthma as prophylactic therapy in patients 5 years of age and older. The aerosol form of beclomethasone diproprionate is not indicated for the relief of acute bronchospasm.10 Indicated for intranasal use to relieve the symptoms of seasonal or perennial allergic and nonallergic (vasomotor) rhinitis and prevent the recurrence of nasal polyps following surgical removal.11 Indicated for the relief of the inflammatory and pruritic manifestations of corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses in patients 13 years of age and older.13 Corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses include psoriasis, contact dermatitis (dermatitis venenata), atopic dermatitis (infantile eczema, allergic dermatitis), neurodermatitis (lichen simplex chronicus, lichen planus, eczema, eczematous dermatitis), intertrigo, dyshidroses (pompholyx), seborrheic dermatitis, exfoliative dermatitis, solar dermatitis, stasis dermatitis, and anogenital and senile pruritus.12 Inflammatory conditions, including asthma, dermatoses, and allergic rhinitis, involve the activation of cascades by inflammatory mediators. Inflammation is a primary defense mechanism and the homeostatic response of the immune system; however, a prolonged inflammatory response in certain disorders may lead to tissue damage, pain, and swelling. Beclomethasone dipropionate works by attenuating the inflammatory responses associated with asthma, allergic rhinitis, nasal polyps, and corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. It suppresses the actions of inflammatory cells, such as mast cells, eosinophils, basophils, lymphocytes, macrophages, and neutrophils. It also inhibits the release of inflammatory mediators, such as histamine, eicosanoids, leukotrienes, and cytokines.10 Beclomethasone dipropionate is reported to exhibit potent topical activity while possessing low systemic effects.2  Beclomethasone dipropionate is a corticosteroid drug with anti-inflammatory and vasoconstrictive effects used to treat chronic inflammatory processes such as asthma, allergic rhinitis, corticosteroid-responsive dermatoses. When inhaled, it improves lung function, decreases airway hyper-reactivity, and reduces the severity of asthmatic symptoms.9 Although inhaled corticosteroids, including beclomethasone dipropionate, are reported to mainly act locally in the lungs, systemic effects such as disruption of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis function, bone turnover, osteoporosis, and growth suppression may still be observed with chronic use or high dose administration. There were varying findings from clinical studies examining the effect of beclomethasone dipropionate on growth suppression in pediatric patients.9 It was shown to suppress the hypothalamo-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) axis in a dose-dependent manner.6 HPA axis is a central hormonal response system to stress and activation of HPA axis leads to the production of endogenous steroid hormone production.7 Long-term use of high-dose systemic corticosteroids, including those inhaled, was often associated with signs and symptoms of adrenal insufficiency when exposed to stress conditions, such as trauma, surgery, or infections. As corticosteroids work by suppressing the immune system, there may be an increased risk for developing infections.10 Cases of Candida albicans infection of the mouth and throat have been reported with inhaled beclomethasone dipropionate therapy.8 Beclomethasone dipropionate is a corticosteroid and prodrug that is rapidly activated by hydrolysis to the active monoester, 17 monopropionate (17-BMP), which mediates anti-inflammatory actions. 17-BMP has been shown in vitro to exhibit a binding affinity for the human glucocorticoid receptor which is approximately 13 times that of dexamethasone and 25 times that of beclomethasone dipropionate.10 Upon binding of the ligand, the glucocorticoid receptors dimerize and translocate into the nucleus, where they subsequently bind to glucocorticoid response elements (GRE) on glucocorticoid-responsive genes, leading to changes in transcription. There are several proposed mechanisms for the anti-inflammatory action of corticosteroids. Corticosteroids may work by increasing the transcription of genes coding for anti-inflammatory proteins, including lipocortin-1 and interleukin-10.4 Corticosteroids were also shown to inhibit the expression of multiple genes that encode pro-inflammatory factors, such as cytokines, chemokines, and adhesion molecules, that are activated during the chronic inflammatory process.5 This is thought to be due to the direct inhibitory interaction between activated glucocorticoid receptors and activated pro-inflammatory transcription factors, such as nuclear factor-kappa B and activator protein-1.4 Chronic inflammation is often characterized by enhanced expression of these transcription factors that bind to and activate coactivator molecules, which then acetylate core histones to switch on gene transcription to further amplify the inflammatory process.5 Corticosteroids suppress the multiple inflammatory gene expression by promoting histone deacetylation, resulting in tighter coiling of DNA and reduced access of transcription factors to their binding sites.4  Following oral inhalation of 320 mcg of beclomethasone dipropionate (BDP), the Cmax was 88 pg/mL and it was reached after 0.5 at post-administration. The mean Cmax of the major and most active metabolite, beclomethasone-17-monopropionate (17-BMP), was 1419 pg/mL at 0.7 hour post-dosing.10 In another pharmacokinetic study, the AUC of BDP and 17-BMP were 6660 and 6185 pgxh/mL, respectively. The Cmax was 35356 pg/mL for BDP and 2633 pg/mL for 17-BMP, and and the median time to reach these concentrations (Tmax) was 0.2 hours. In the same study, the AUC of 17-BMP following oral and intranasal administration were 10158 and 3660 pgxh/mL, respectively. The Cmax of 17-BMP following oral and intranasal administration were 703 and 310 pg/mL, respectively, and the Tmax was 4 hours. The total bioavailability of 17-BMP following oral and intranasal administration were 41% and 44%, respectively.1 Following intravenous administration, the steady-state volume of distribution was 20 L for beclomethasone dipropionate and 424 L for the active metabolite, beclomethasone-17-monopropionate.1 Based on the findings of in vitro studies, the protein binding of the main active metabolite, beclomethasone-17-monopropionate (17-BMP), was 94-96% over the concentration range of 1000 to 5000 pg/mL.10 During absorption, beclomethasone dipropionate is undergoes rapid and extensive hydrolysis mediated by esterases CYP3A to form beclomethasone-17-monopropionate (17-BMP), beclomethasone-21-monopropionate (21-BMP), and beclomethasone (BOH). 17-BMP is the major active metabolite with the most potent anti-inflammatory activity.10 About 95% of the total beclomethasone dipropionate administered via oral inhalation undergoes presystemic conversion to form 17-BMP in the lung.1 Hover over products below to view reaction partners Regardless of the route of administration, beclomethasone dipropionate and its metabolites are predominantly excreted in the feces, with less than 10% of the drug and its metabolites being excreted in the urine.10
11 Following intravenous administration, the half life of beclomethasone dipropionate was 0.5 hours while the half life of the active metabolite 17-BMP was 2.7 hours. Following oral and intranasal administration, the half life of 17-BMP was 8.8 and 5.7 hours, respectively.1 Following intravenous administration, the clearance of beclomethasone dipropionate and 17-BMP were 150 L/h and 120 L/h, respectively.1 The oral LD50 in rats is >3750 mg/kg.MSDS  The acute toxicity of beclometasone dipropionate is low. The only harmful effect that follows inhalation of large amounts of the drug over a short period of time is suppression of hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal (HPA) function. Chronic: The excessive use of beclometasone dipropionate over a long period could lead to adrenal suppression. Extended description of the mechanism of action and particular properties of each drug interaction. A severity rating for each drug interaction, from minor to major. A rating for the strength of the evidence supporting each drug interaction. An effect category for each drug interaction. Know how this interaction affects the subject drug. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. A unique ID assigned by the FDA when a product is submitted for approval by the labeller. A governmentally-recognized ID which uniquely identifies the product within its regulatory market. Taub, D., Wendler, N.L. and Slates, H.L.; US.Patent 3,345,387; October 3, 1967; assigned
Binimetinib | DrugBank Online Binimetinib, also known as Mektovi, is a potent is a potent and selective oral mitogen-activated protein kinase 1/2 (MEK 1/2) inhibitor which is combined with Encorafenib 4,8. On June 27, 2018, the Food and Drug Administration approved the combination of Encorafenib and binimetinib (BRAFTOVI and MEKTOVI, from Array BioPharma Inc.) in combination for patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with the BRAF V600E or V600K mutations, as detected by an FDA-approved test 8. On June 27, 2018, the Food and Drug Administration approved encorafenib and binimetinib in combination patients with unresectable or metastatic melanoma with a BRAF V600E or V600K mutation, as detected by an FDA-approved test 8. Binimetinib is a MEK inhibitor. MEK is an enzyme that regulates the biosynthesis of the inflammatory cytokines TNF, IL-6 and IL-1. MEK inhibitors interfere with these biosynthetic processes 7. It is a chemotherapeutic agent that has anti-tumor activity 10, 1. Binimetinib, noncompetitive with ATP, binds to and inhibits the activity of MEK1/2. The inhibition of MEK1/2 prevents the activation of MEK1/2-dependent effector proteins and transcription factors. This process can result in the inhibition of growth factor-mediated cell signaling. This may lead to the inhibition of tumor cell proliferation and an inhibition in the production of various inflammatory cytokines including interleukin-1, -6 and tumor necrosis factor. MEK1/2 are themselves threonine and tyrosine kinases that possess a dual specificity. They subsequently contribute critically to the activation of the RAS/RAF/MEK/ERK pathway and are typically upregulated in a number of different tumor cell types 7. Following oral administration in a pharmacokinetic study, at least 50% of the binimetinib dose was absorbed with a median time to maximum concentration (Tmax) of 1.6 hours Label. The administration of a single dose of MEKTOVI 45 mg with a high-fat, high-calorie meal (consisting of approximately 150 calories from protein, 350 calories from carbohydrate, and 500 calories from fat) in healthy subjects had no effect on binimetinib exposure Label. The geometric mean (CV%) of apparent volume of distribution of binimetinib is 92 L (45%) Label Binimetinib is 97% bound to human plasma proteins and the blood-to-plasma ratio is 0.72 Label The primary metabolic pathway is glucuronidation with UGT1A1 contributing up to 61% of the binimetinib metabolism. Other pathways of binimetinib metabolism include N-dealkylation, amide hydrolysis, and loss of ethane-diol from the side chain. The active metabolite M3 produced by CYP1A2 and CYP2C19 represents 8.6% of the binimetinib exposure. Following a single oral dose of 45 mg radiolabeled binimetinib, approximately 60% of the circulating radioactivity AUC in plasma was attributable to binimetinib Label. Following a single oral dose of 45 mg radiolabeled binimetinib in healthy subjects, 62% (32% unchanged) of the administered dose was recovered in the feces while 31% (6.5% unchanged) was recovered in the urine Label. The mean (CV%) terminal half-life (t1/2) of binimetinib is 3.5 hours (28.5%) Label. 20.2 L/h (24%) Label The most common (≥25%) adverse reactions in patients receiving the combination of this drug with Encorafenib were fatigue, nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, abdominal pain, and arthralgia. Discontinuation of therapy due to adverse reactions occurred in 5% of patients receiving the combination; the most common reasons were hemorrhage and headache 8. Due to the variety of adverse events associated with this drug, adverse events are categorized by system 12: Systemic events: Fatigue (31%) 12 Musculoskeletal system: Rhabdomyolysis 12 Ophthalmic events: Retinal hemorrhage, retinal detachment (6%), macular edema, serous retinopathy (20%) 12 Circulatory system: Hypertension, thromboembolic events such as DVT, resulting in pulmonary embolism (5.6%), peripheral
Alpelisib | DrugBank Online Alpelisib is a phosphatidylinositol 3-kinase (PI3K) inhibitor with potent antitumor activity. It works by selectively inhibiting class I PI3K p110α 2, which is the catalytic subunit of PI3K, a lipid kinase that plays a role in various biological processes, including proliferation, survival, differentiation, and metabolism. Alpelisib was designed to target this enzyme that appears to be mutated at a rate of nearly 30% in human cancers, leading to hyperactivation.3  There are several isoform-specific PI3K inhibitors that are under clinical development or currently approved, such as idelalisib used for chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL).3 Approved by the FDA in May 2019, alpelisib is the first approved PI3K inhibitor indicated for the treatment of hormone receptor (HR)-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative, PIK3CA-mutated, advanced or metastatic breast cancer in combination with fulvestrant for postmenopausal women and male patients. To initiate alpelisib therapy, it is required that the presence of a PIK3CA mutation in the tissue and/or liquid biopsy sample collection should be confirmed via FDA-approved diagnostic tests. Alpelisib is marketed under the trade name Piqray and is available as oral tablets. Studies evaluating the therapeutic effectiveness of alpelisib in other cancers, such as ovarian cancer 1 and colorectal cancer 2, are under ongoing investigations. Alpelisib was granted FDA approval on 24 May 2019.7 Alpelisib is indicated in combination with fulvestrant to treat postmenopausal women, and men, with advanced or metastatic breast cancer.Label This cancer must be hormone receptor (HR)-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 2 (HER2)-negative, and PIK3CA­ mutated.Label The cancer must be detected by an FDA-approved test following progression on or after an endocrine-based regimen.Label Alpelisib does not prolong the QTcF interval.Label Patients taking alpelisib experience a dose dependent benefit from treatment with a 51% advantage of a 200mg daily dose over a 100mg dose and a 22% advantage of 300mg once daily over 150mg twice daily.6 This suggests patients requiring a lower dose may benefit from twice daily dosing.6 Phosphatidylinositol-3-kinase-α (PI3Kα) is responsible for cell proliferation in response to growth factor-tyrosine kinase pathway activation.3 In some cancers PI3Kα's p110α catalytic subunit is mutated making it hyperactive.3 Alpelisib inhibits (PI3K), with the highest specificity for PI3Kα.Label Alpelisib reached a peak concentration in plasma of 1320±912ng/mL after 2 hours.4 Alpelisib has an AUClast of 11,100±3760h ng/mL and an AUCINF of 11,100±3770h ng/mL.4 A large, high fat meal increases the AUC by 73% and Cmax by 84% while a small, low fat meal increases the AUC by 77% and Cmax by 145%.Label The apparent volume of distribution at steady state is 114L.Label Alpelisib is 89% protein bound.Label Alpelisib is metabolized by hydrolysis reactions to form the primary metabolite.Label It is also metabolized by CYP3A4.Label The full metabolism of Alpelisib has yet to be determined but a series of reactions have been proposed.4,5 The main metabolic reaction is the substitution of an amine group on alpelisib for a hydroxyl group to form a metabolite known as M44,5 or BZG791.Label Alpelisib can also be glucuronidated to form the M1 and M12 metabolites.4,5 Hover over products below to view reaction partners 36% of an oral dose is eliminated as unchanged drug in the feces and 32% as the primary metabolite BZG791 in the feces.Label 2% of an oral dose is eliminated in the urine as unchanged drug and 7.1% as the primary metabolite BZG791.Label In total 81% of an oral dose is eliminated in the feces and 14% is eliminated in the urine.Label The mean half life of alprelisib is 8 to 9 hours.Label The mean apparent oral clearance was 39.0L/h.4 The predicted clearance is 9.2L/hr under fed conditions.Label LD50 and Overdose Patients experiencing an overdose may present with hyperglycemia, nausea, asthenia, and rash.Label There is no antidote for an overdose of alpelisib so patients should be treated symptomatically.Label
Data regarding an LD50 is not readily available.MSDS In clinical trials, patients were given doses of up to 450mg once daily.Label Pregnancy, Lactation, and Fertility Following administration in rats and rabbits during organogenesis, adverse effects on the reproductive system, such as embryo-fetal mortality, reduced fetal weights, and increased incidences of fetal malformations, were observed.Label
Based on these findings of animals studies and its mechanism of action, it is proposed that alpelisib may cause embryo-fetal toxicity when administered to pregnant patients.Label
There is no data available regarding the presence of alpelisib in breast milk so breast feeding mothers are advised not to breastfeed while taking this medication and for 1 week after their last dose.Label
Tecovirimat | DrugBank Online The World Health Organization declared smallpox, a contagious and sometimes fatal infectious disease, eradicated in 1980. However, there have been longstanding concerns that smallpox may be used as a bioweapon 7. Also known as ST-246, Tecovirimat is the first approved drug for smallpox 8, 7. Tecovirimat has been studied for the treatment of smallpox, monkeypox, orthopoxvirus, and orthopoxviral Disease. The U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved tecovirimat (as TPOXX) on July 13, 2018 for the treatment of smallpox 7. Tecovirimat is indicated for the treatment of smallpox infection. It can be administered in children and adults with a minimum body weight of 13 kg Label. Tecovirimat is an inhibitor of the Orthopoxvirus VP37 envelope wrapping protein Label. Tecovirimat prevents viral spread throughout the body 9.
This drug inhibits its molecular target, a protein called p37, from interacting with intracellular transport components necessary for the production of enveloped virus, and therefore the spread of virus 9. Tecovirimat inhibits the production of extracellular viral forms, which are responsible for the systemic spread of infection, inhibiting virus-induced cytopathic effects. Tecovirimat does not inhibit the formation of intracellular forms of the virus (IMV); however, by inhibiting envelopment, and therefore preventing the exit of viral particles from an infected cell, the smallpox infection is slowed to a point where the immune system can eliminate the virus 9. Tecovirimat has shown a high level of selectivity and specificity for orthopoxviruses. Tecovirimat targets the viral p37 protein, a highly conserved protein with no homologs outside of the Orthopoxvirus genus, inhibiting its function that is necessary for required for the viral envelopment of IMV (intracellular mature virus). Tecovirimat interferes with the cellular localization of p37 viral protein and prevents its association with cellular proteins involved in membrane trafficking 9. Readily absorbed following oral administration, with mean times to maximum concentration from 3 to 4 h 3.
Sarecycline | DrugBank Online Sarecycline is a semi-synthetic derivative of tetracycline that was initially discovered by Paratek Pharmaceuticals from Boston, MA but then licensed to Warner Chilcott of Rockaway, NJ in July of 2007 4. After completing various phase-II and phase-III trials demonstrating its effectiveness in treating moderate to severe facial acne vulgaris 2,3 the US Food and Drug Administration approved Barcelona based Almirall, S.A.'s Seysara (sarecylcine) as a new first in class narrow spectrum tetracycline derived oral antibiotic for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of non-nodular moderate to severe acne vulgaris in patients nine years of age and older 5. Seysara (sarecycline) was originally part of Allergan's US Medical Dermatology portfolio, before Almirall acquired the portfolio in the second half of 2018 as a means of consolidating and reinforcing the dermatology-focused pharmaceutical company's presence in the United States 6. Acne vulgaris itself is a common chronic skin condition associated with the blockage and/or inflammation of hair follicles and their accompanying sebaceous glands 5. The acne often presents physically as a mixture of non-inflammatory and inflammatory lesions mainly on the face but on the back and chest as well 5. Based upon data from Global Burden of Disease studies, the acne vulgaris condition affects up to 85% of young adults aged 12 to 25 years globally - with the possibility of permanent physical and mental scarring resulting from cases of severe acne 5. Subsequently, while a number of first line tetracycline therapies like doxycycline and minocycline do exist for treating acne vulgaris, sarecycline presents a new and innovative therapy choice because it exhibits the necessary antibacterial activity against relevant pathogens that cause acne vulgaris but also possesses a low propensity for resistance development in such pathogens and a narrower, more specific spectrum of antibacterial activity, resulting in fewer off-target antibacterial effects on endogenous intestinal flora and consequently fewer resultant adverse effects associated with diarrhea, fungal overgrowth, etc. Sarecycline is a tetracycline-class drug indicated for the treatment of inflammatory lesions of non-nodular moderate to severe acne vulgaris in patients 9 years of age and older Label. Compared to various examples of first-line tetracycline therapies for moderate to severe acne like doxycycline and minocycline, studies have shown that sarecycline can be sixteen to thirty-two fold less active against aerobic Gram-negative bacilli present within the normal human intestinal microbiome 1. Furthermore, it has also been demonstrated that sarecycline may be four to eight fold less active against various anaerobic bacteria that also comprise the normal human intestinal microbiome 1. Subsequently, while doxycycline and minocycline typically elicit broad-spectrum antimicrobial activity that can often cause adverse effects like diarrhea, fungal overgrowth, vaginal candidiasis, etc. due to undesirable off-target antibacterial effects on endogenous intestinal flora, sarecycline demonstrates a noticeably more target specific narrow spectrum activity with lower incidence of such side effects 1,2,3,Label. Moreover, sarecycline also shares a relatively low propensity for resistance development in Cutibacterium acnes - one of the principal anaerobic organisms associated with acne lesions - with doxycycline and minocycline treatments 1. It has been demonstrated that tetracyclines like sarecycline elicit their antimicrobial action by targeting and inhibiting protein synthesis in microbial agents like Cutibacterium acnes present in acne lesions 1,2,3. In particular, it is believed that sarecycline's mechanism of action revolves around the inhibition of various macromolecular biosynthesis activities like the macromolecular biosynthesis of microbial DNA, RNA, proteins, lipids, and cell wall 1. Specifically, it has been observed that while sarecycline demonstrates appreciable inhibition of microbial macromolecular DNA and protein synthesis, the compound has little to no effect on lipid biosynthesis, cell wall synthesis, and RNA synthesis 1. In addition, because Cutibacterium acnes also generates proteins and enzymes that are capable of causing inflammation, it is also believed that tetracyclines like sarecyclines can also affect an anti-inflammatory effect via the inhibition of such microbial protein synthesis 1. The median time to peak plasma concentration (Tmax) of sarecycline is 1.5 to 2.0 hours Label. When the medication is taken with a meal consisting of high fat (about 50% of total caloric content of the meal), high caloric (about 800 to 1000 Kcal), and milk content the Tmax can be delayed by approximately 0.53 hours and the Cmax and AUC can be decreased by 31% and 27%, respectively Label. The mean apparent volume of distribution of sarecycline at steady-state ranges from 91.4 L to 97.0 L Label. The protein binding of sarecycline has been recorded as ranging from 62.5% to 74.7% in vitro Label. Metabolism of sarecycline by enzymes in human liver microsomes is minimal (< 15%) in vitro Label. Minor metabolites resulting from non-enzymic epimerization, O-/N-demethylation, hydroxylation, and desaturation have been found Label. After a single 100 mg oral dose of radiolabeled sarecycline, 42.6% of the dose was recovered in feces (14.9% as unchanged) and 44.1% in urine (24.7% as unchanged) Label. The mean elimination half-life of sarecycline is 21 to 22 hours Label. The mean apparent oral clearance (CL/F) of sarecycline at steady state is about 3 L/h Label. No clinically significant differences in the pharmacokinetics of sarecycline were observed based on age (11 to 73 years), weight (42 to 133 kg), sex, renal impairment, or mild to moderate hepatic impairment (Child Pugh A to B). The effect of end-stage renal disease (ESRD) or severe hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh C) on sarecycline pharmacokinetics has not been assessed Label. In a 2-year oral mouse carcinogenicity study and a 2-year oral rat carcinogenicity study, no drug-related neoplasms were observed in male mice at oral doses of sarecycline up to 100 mg/kg/day (approximately equal to the MRHD based on AUC comparison) or in female mice at doses up to 60 mg/kg/day (approximately equal to the MRHD based on AUC comparison), or in rats at doses up to 200/100 mg/kg/day (dose reduced from 200 to 100 mg/kg/day due to increased mortality; 8 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison) Label. Sarecycline was not mutagenic or clastogenic in a series of in vitro and in vivo genotoxicity studies, including a bacteria reverse mutation (Ames) assay, an in vitro chromosomal aberration assay in CHO cells, the L5178Y/TK+/- Mouse Lymphoma Assay, and an in vivo micronucleus assay in rats Label. In a fertility and early embryonic development study in rats, sarecycline was administered to both male and female rats at oral doses up to 400 mg/kg/day prior to pairing and through the mating and postmating period Label. Female fertility was not affected at doses up to 400 mg/kg/day (8 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison) Label. In sperm evaluation, decreased sperm motility, decreased sperm count and concentration, and an increase in percent abnormal sperm occurred at 400 mg/kg/day (8 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison) Label. Male fertility was not affected at doses up to 150 mg/kg/day (4 times the MRHD based on AUC comparison) Label. Sarecycline, like other tetracycline class drugs, may cause fetal harm, permanent discoloration of teeth, and
Telotristat ethyl | DrugBank Online Telotristat only approved oral therapy for carcinoid syndrome diarrhea. Telotristat was approved by the FDA in March, 2017 as Xermelo. As a serotonin synthesis inhibitor, telotristat etiprate, has the potential to reduce serotonin levels and address the key elements of carcinoid syndrome.  Activity is mainly in the gastrointestinal tract, with minimal effects reported on the brain and cardiovascular system, accompanied by an excellent safety profile.
In normal mice, telotristat etiprate (administered once daily for 4 days at doses of 15–300 mg/kg/day) was found to reduce serotonin levels throughout the gastrointestinal tract. These reductions occurred in a dose dependent fashion with maximal effects observed with doses of telotristat etiprate ≥150 mg/kg. No significant change in brain serotonin or 5-hydroxyindoleacetic acid (5-HIAA, a serotonin metabolite) was observed. Similar findings were seen in Sprague-Dawley rats. Gastrointestinal motility studies were conducted in rats using the charcoal meal test. There was a significant dose-related delay in both gastrointestinal transit and gastric emptying, associated with a reduction in blood serotonin levels and proximal colon serotonin.
Dilmapimod | DrugBank Online Dilmapimod has been used in trials studying the treatment and diagnostic of Nerve Trauma, Inflammation, Pain, Neuropathic, Arthritis, Rheumatoid, and Coronary Heart Disease, among others. Dilmapimod (SB-681323) is a p38 MAP-kinase inhibitor that has potential uses in inflammatory conditions such as RA (Rheumatoid Arthritis). Previous p38 MAP-kinase inhibitors have been hindered in development by liver toxicity. Methotrexate (common treatment for RA patients) also has potential liver toxicity.} Dilmapimod has been used in trials studying the treatment and diagnostic of Nerve Trauma, Inflammation, Pain, Neuropathic, Arthritis, Rheumatoid, and Coronary Heart Disease, among others. Dilmapimod reduces the levels of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines and reduce cellular infiltration to sites of inflammation, thereby reducing local damage.
Erdafitinib | DrugBank Online In early April of 2019, the US FDA approved Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies' brand name Balversa (erdafitinib) as the first-ever fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) kinase inhibitor indicated for patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma, with susceptible FGFR3 or FGFR2 genetic alterations, that has progressed during or following platinum-containing chemotherapy, including within 12 months of neoadjuvant or adjuvant platinum-containing chemotherapy 4,5. At the same time, the FDA also approved the therascreen FGFR RGQ RT-PCR Kit (Qiagen) for utilization as a companion diagnostic with erdafitinib for selecting patients for the indicated therapy 4,5. Erdafitinib's innovation lies in the fact that it is the first personalized treatment targeting susceptible FGFR genetic alterations for patients with metastatic bladder cancer, which demonstrates the design of erdafitinib in developing more personalized and precision medicines with the capacity to target cancer treatment to a patient's specific genetic mutation 4,5. Considering urothelial cancer is statistically the fourth most common kind of cancer in the world 7, the introduction of erdafitinib offers a welcome new option in the ever-expanding therapeutic tool kit to treat such prevalent medical conditions. Nevertheless, although erdafitinib was granted Breakthrough Therapy designation and Accelerated Approval from the FDA so as to allow the agency to focus on and expedite the approval process for a medication indicated for a serious condition that fills an unmet medical need using clinical trial data that is believed to predict a genuine clinical benefit for patients with the given condition, such designations mean further ongoing clinical trials are necessary to confirm the clinical benefit of erdafitinib going forward 4,5. Erdafitinib is a pan-fibroblast growth factor receptor (FGFR) tyrosine kinase inhibitor Label1,2,3 that is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic urothelial carcinoma that has:
i) susceptible FGFR3 or FGFR2 genetic alterations and has Label,
Seletracetam | DrugBank Online Seletracetam is a pyrrolidone derivative and with a structural similarity to newer generation antiepileptic drug levetiracetam. It binds to the same target as levetiracetam but with higher affinity and has shown potent seizure suppression in models of acquired and genetic epilepsy with high CNS tolerability. It is predicted to have low drug-drug interactions and inhibition or induction of any major human metabolizing enzymes. Seletracetam was in Phase II clinical trials under the supervision of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) investigated as treatment of epilepsy and partial epilepsy however its development had been put on hold in July 2007. As of 2010, its production was further halted due to the investigation of a newer antiepileptic agent, brivaracetam. Investigated for use/treatment in epilepsy. Seletracetam is an antiepileptic agent that targets the presynaptic mechanisms of epilepsy. It interferes with synaptic vesicle exocytosis and neurotransmitter release by binding to synaptic vesicle protein 2A (SV2A) which is involved in synaptic vesicle docking and fusion. It is also a N-type calcium channel blocker that inhibits the abnormal neuronal discharge by inhibiting the calcium channel function and associated calcium currents. Seletracetam markedly reduces epileptiform markers of both hyper-excitability and hyper-synchronization in an in vitro slice model of epilepsy and potently suppresses seizures in in vivo epilepsy models mimicking both partial and generalized epilepsy [A19305].  Seletracetam binds to SV2A in a stereospecific and selective manner. SV2A is a membrane glycoprotein present in synaptic vesicles of neurons that plays a role as calcium regulators in neurotransmitter release and modulate synaptic networks. Seletracetam is thought to reduce excessive neuronal activity by modulating SV2A function and restoring the ability of a neuron to regulate its neurotransmitter release.
Iodide I-131 | DrugBank Online Iodide I-131 (as Sodium iodide I-131) is a radioisotopic drug used for the treatment and palliation of thyroid malignancy. Iodine-131 is notable for causing mutation and death in cells that it penetrates, which is due to its mode of beta decay. As a result of beta decay, approximately 10% of its energy and radiation dose is via gamma radiation, while the other 90% (beta radiation) causes tissue damage without contributing to any ability to see or image the isotope. Low levels of beta radiation are also known for causing cancer as this dose is highly mutagenic. For this reason, less toxic iodine isotopes such as I-123 are more frequently used in nuclear imaging, while I-131 is reserved for its tissue destroying effects. Because the thyroid gland naturally takes up iodine from the body, therapeutic methods using radioisotopes can take advantage of this mechanism for localization of drug to the site of malignancy.  Therapeutic solutions of Sodium Iodide-131 are indicated for the treatment of hyperthyroidism and thyroid carcinomas that take up iodine. Palliative effects may be observed in patients with advanced thyroid malignancy if the metastatic lesions take up iodine. It is also indicated for use in performance of the radioactive iodide (RAI) uptake test to evaluate thyroid function. Therapeutic solutions of Sodium Iodide-131 are indicated for the treatment of hyperthyroidism and thyroid carcinomas that take up iodine. Palliative effects may be observed in patients with advanced thyroid malignancy if the metastatic lesions take up iodine. It is also indicated for use in performance of the radioactive iodide (RAI) uptake test to evaluate thyroid function. The therapeutic effects of sodium iodide I-131 are a result of the ionizing radiation absorbed by the thyroidal tissue. Tissue damage is the result of direct insult to molecules by ionization and excitation and the consequent dissociation of those molecules. About 90% of local irradiation from sodium iodide I-131 is the result of beta radiation and 10% is the result of gamma radiation.  Taken orally, sodium iodide I-131 is rapidly absorbed and distributed within the extracellular fluid of the body. The iodide is concentrated in the thyroid via the sodium/iodide symporter, and subsequently oxidized to iodine. The destruction of thyroidal tissue is achieved by the beta emission of sodium iodide I-131.  After oral administration, sodium iodide I-131 is absorbed rapidly from the upper gastrointestinal tract (90% in 60 minutes). Following absorption, the iodide is primarily distributed within the extra-cellular fluid of the body. It is trapped by the thyroid. The thyroid uptake of iodide is usually increased in hyperthyroidism and in goiter with impaired hormone synthesis, decreased in hypothyroidism, and normal to decreased in hypothyroidism receiving iodine. It should be noted that the uptake of radioactive iodide is a function of stable iodide concentration in the serum and the functional state of the thyroid. Sodium Iodide I-131 is not protein bound. Trapped iodide is oxidized to iodine and organically incorporated so rapidly that the iodide trap of the thyroid contains less than 0.2 % free iodide in comparison to the organically bound iodine. This process results in further concentration of iodine in the thyroid gland to about 500 times that in the blood.  Sodium Iodide I-131 is excreted by the kidneys. The normal range of urinary excretion is 37 to 75 % of the administered dose, varying with the thyroid and renal function of the patient. Iodine I-131 decays by beta emission and associated gamma emission with a physical half-life of 8.04 days. Adverse reactions that have been reported with doses of sodium iodide I-131 used in the treatment of benign disease include sialadenitis, chest pain, tachycardia, iododerma, itching skin, rash, hives, hypothyroidism, hyperthyroidism, thyrotoxic crisis, hypoparathyroidism, and local swelling.
Edaravone | DrugBank Online Edaravone is a free radical scavenger approved in May, 2017 for the treatment of amyotrophic lateral scleorosis (ALS). Clinical studies showed that the treatment attenuated deterioration of the disease when compared to placebo. It has been previously investigated for the treatment of ischemic stroke, reperfusion Injury, and myocardial Infarction as it possesses antioxidant and anti-apoptotic properties. Being a low molecular weight molecule with good water and lipid-soluble properies, it is therapeutically advantageous in crossing the blood-brain barrier to mediate nootropic and neuroprotective effects. Oral formulation of edaravone is currently under development. Indicated for improving neurological symptoms and damage from acute ischemic stroke and delaying disease progression of ALS. Edaravone scavenges free hydroxyl radicals and peroxynitrite radicals which are highly associated with neuronal damage/death from many cerebral vascular disorders such as ischemic strokes and degenerative neurological disorders such as ALS. It exerts a neuroprotective and antioxidant effect and delays disease progression by limiting the extent of lipid peroxidation via free radical generation and cell membrane damage from oxidative stress. It reversed the reduction in regional blood flow and cerebral edema in a case of ischemic stroke.  Nootropic and neuroprotective effects are mediated through inhibiting lipid peroxidation and scavenging free radicals. Edaravone acts to increase prostacyclin production, decrease lipoxygenase metabolism of arachidonic acid by trapping hydroxyl radicals, and inhibit alloxan-induced lipid peroxidation and quench active oxygen species. It targets various kinds of cells, including neurons, endothelial cells and myocardial cells 6. There is also evidence of reduction of neuronal nitric oxide synthase (nNOS) levels and potentiation of SOD1 levels after transient ischemia in rabbits thus preventing spinal cord injury.  The peak plasma concentration of the parent drug is reached at the end of infusion, without accumulation of the drug with multiple dosing regimen. The mean Cmax value in healthy male adults is 888ng/mL for intravenous infusion. The values of AUC and Cmax are increased in a dose-proportional relationship. The oral bioavailability in mouse studies is 38% of the I.V. delivery 1. The mean Vd value following an intravenous infusion of a single 30mg dose is 18.5L/kg 2. The in vitro binding rates of edaravone to human serum protein and albumin are 92% and 89-91%, respectively, with no concentration-dependence.  Multiple renal and hepatic uridine diphosphate glucuronosyltransferase (UGT) isoforms catalyze glucuronidation reaction of edaravone to form glucuronide conjugates.
Edaravone is also metabolized into sulfate conjugates via sulfotransferase activity, which is the main metabolite form predominantly found circulating in plasma. It is predicted that the sulfate conjugate is hydrolyzed back to edaravone, which is then converted to the glucuronide conjugate in the human kidney before excretion into the urine. These metabolites have no pharmacological activity. About 0.7-0.9% of the dose is excreted as unchanged drug and 71.0-79.9% of the dose is excreted as metabolites (mostly as glucuronide conjugates) through mainly renal elimination.  The mean terminal elimination half-life of edaravone is 4.5 to 6 hours and the half-lives of its metabolites are 2 to 2.8 hours. The mean total plasma drug clearance following an intravenous infusion of a single 30mg dose is 0.1L/min 2. No reported evidence of carcinogenic, mutagenic or teratogenic potential. Oral LD50 value is 1,915 mg/kg (Rat).
Triclabendazole | DrugBank Online Triclabendazole, manufactured by Novartis pharmaceuticals, is an antihelminthic drug that was approved by the FDA in February 2019 for the treatment of fascioliasis in humans.Label,4 Fascioliasis is a parasitic infection often caused by the helminth, Fasciola hepatica, which is also known as “the common liver fluke” or “the sheep liver fluke” or by Fasciola gigantica, another helminth. These parasites can infect humans following ingestion of larvae in contaminated water or food.  Triclabendazole was previously used in the treatment of fascioliasis in livestock, but is now approved for human use.
This drug is currently the only FDA-approved drug for individuals with fascioliasis, which affects 2.4 million people worldwide.2,4 This drug is indicated for the treatment of fascioliasis in patients aged 6 years old and above.Label,4 Triclabendazole and its metabolites are active against both the immature and mature worms of Fasciola hepatica and
Fasciola gigantica helminths.Label Effect on QT interval This drug may prolong the cardiac QT interval. Monitor ECG in patients with a history of QT prolongation or who are taking medications known to prolong the QT interval.Label  Triclabendazole is an anthelmintic agent against Fasciola species.Label The mechanism of action against Fasciola species is not fully understood at this time. In vitro studies and animal studies suggest that triclabendazole and its active metabolites (sulfoxide and sulfone) are absorbed by the outer body covering of the immature and mature worms, causing a reduction in the resting membrane potential, the inhibition of tubulin function as well as protein and enzyme synthesis necessary for survival. These metabolic disturbances lead to an inhibition of motility, disruption of the worm outer surface, in addition to the inhibition of spermatogenesis and egg/embryonic cells.Label A note on resistance In vitro studies, in vivo studies, as well as case reports suggest a possibility for the development of resistance to triclabendazole.
The mechanism of resistance may be multifactorial and include changes in drug uptake/efflux mechanisms, target molecules, and changes in drug metabolism. The clinical significance of triclabendazole resistance in humans is not yet elucidated.Label After a single oral dose of 10 mg/kg triclabendazole with a 560-kcal meal to patients diagnosed with fascioliasis, mean peak plasma concentrations (Cmax) for triclabendazole, the sulfoxide, and sulfone metabolites were 1.16, 38.6, and 2.29 μmol/L, respectively. The area under the curve (AUC) for triclabendazole, the sulfoxide and sulfone metabolites were 5.72, 386, and 30.5 μmol∙h/L, respectively.Label After the oral administration of a single dose of triclabendazole at 10 mg/kg with a 560 calorie meal to patients with fascioliasis, the median Tmax for the parent compound as well as the active sulfoxide metabolite was 3 to 4 hours.Label Effect of Food
Propiverine | DrugBank Online Propiverine is a widely used antimuscarinic drug with a mixed mode of action in the treatment of symptoms associated with overactive bladder (OAB) 1. Overactive bladder (OAB) is a chronic condition of the lower urinary tract characterized by urinary urgency, increased frequency of urination, and nocturia (frequent waking during the night to urinate). OAB has a negative impact on quality of life and may lead to leakage and inconvenient urinary accidents 15, 16. Overactive bladder syndrome affects millions of elderly individuals in the United States and shows equal prevalence in men and women. The impact of OAB on quality of life is sometimes devastating, especially to elderly patients with other medical conditions 16. Propiverine hydrochloride is a bladder detrusor muscle relaxant drug with dual antimuscarinic and calcium-modulating properties for the treatment of OAB 7. Indicated for symptomatic treatment of urinary incontinence and/or increased urinary frequency and urgency in patients with overactive bladder (OAB) 6. Propiverine may also be used in patients with neurogenic bladder as a result of spinal cord injury 5. Propiverine hydrochloride inhibits abnormal contractions of bladder smooth muscle in vivo through not only its anticholinergic activity but also its concurrent calcium antagonistic activity 8. Through the above-mentioned mechanism, propiverine is able to relieve the symptoms of overactive bladder. In animal models, this administration of this drug leads to a dose-dependent decrease in intravesical pressure of the bladder and an increase in bladder capacity 6. In patients with symptoms of OAB resulting from idiopathic detrusor muscle overactivity (IDO) or neurogenic detrusor overactivity (NDO), propiverine showed dose-dependent efficacy and tolerability 1. Propiverine demonstrates both anticholinergic and calcium-modulating properties. The efferent connection of the pelvic nerve is inhibited due to the anticholinergic action exerted by this drug, leading to relaxation of bladder smooth muscle. Propiverine blocks calcium ion influx and modulates the intracellular calcium in urinary bladder smooth muscle cells, resulting in the inhibition of muscle spasm 6. The bladder contains several muscarinic receptors. Acetylcholine is the main contractile neurotransmitter in the human bladder detrusor muscle, and antimuscarinics such as propiverine exert their effects by competitively inhibiting the binding of acetylcholine at muscarinic receptors on detrusor smooth muscle cells and other structures within the bladder wall 17. In one study, After oral treatment with propiverine, the bladder showed the highest concentration of M-2, indicating a targeted distribution of this metabolite into the bladder. Therefore, muscarinic receptor-2 may highly contribute to the relatively selective and long-lasting occupation of bladder muscarinic receptors after oral ingestion of propiverine 19. Propiverine is rapidly absorbed from the gastrointestinal tract with maximum plasma concentrations attained after 2.3 hours. the
mean absolute bioavailability of mictonorm 15 mg tablets (propiverine) is 40.5 %. It undergoes heavy first-pass metabolism in the liver 6. In one study, the volume of distribution was calculated in 21 healthy volunteers after intravenous (IV) administration of propiverine hydrochloride was measured to range from 125 to 4731 (average 2791) indicating, that a large amount of available propiverine is distributed to peripheral compartments 13. 90-95% for the parent compound and about 60% for the main metabolite 13. The major metabolites were found to be as follows; 4-piperidyl diphenylpropoxyacetate (DM-P-4), 1-methyl-4-piperidyl benzilate (Dpr-P-4) and 1-methyl-4-piperidyl diphenyl-(2 carboxy) ethoxyacetate (ω-COOH-P-4) in the liver, Dpt-p-4, DM-P-4 in the kidney, and DM-P-4, DPr-P-4 in the lung 12. In the same pharmacokinetic study, All pharmacologically active compounds such as the unchanged compound, 1-methyl-4-piperidyl benzilate N-oxide (DPr-P-4 (N→O)), Dpt-p-4 and 1-methyl-4-piperidyl diphenylpropoxyacetate N-oxide (P-4 (N→O)) were present in the urinary bladder, a target organ for P-4, at higher concentrations than in the plasma 12. Propiverine is metabolized by both intestinal and hepatic enzymes. The main metabolic pathway involves the oxidation of the piperidyl-N _and is mediated by _CYP 3A4 and _flavin-containing monooxygenases (FMO) _1 and 3 and results in the formation of the second main metabolite M-5, the plasma concentration of which is greater in concentration that of the parent substance propiverine. Four metabolites have been identified in the urine following propiverine ingestion; 3 them are pharmacologically active metabolites that may contribute to its therapeutic effect (M-5, M-6, M-23) 14. The mean absolute bioavailability of propiverine IR 15 mg is 40.5% 6. Following the ingestion of 30 mg propiverine, 60% radioactivity was recovered in urine and 21% was recovered in feces within 12 days. Less than 1% of an oral dose is excreted unchanged in the urine 6. In three studies including a total of 37 healthy volunteers mean elimination half-life was 14.1, 20.1 and
Radotinib | DrugBank Online Radotinib is under investigation for the treatment of Leukemia, Myelogenous, Chronic, BCR-ABL Positive. Radotinib is indicated for the treatment of different types of cancer, most notably Philadelphia chromosome-positive (Ph+) chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) with resistance or intolerance of other Bcr-Abl tyrosine-kinase inhibitors, such as patients resistant or intolerant to imatinib. Philadelphia chromosome positive (Ph+) leukemia is driven by the constitutive enzymatic activity of the BCR-ABL1 fusion kinase. Tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) that block the activity of BCR-ABL1 are successfully used clinically to treat chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) and Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia (Ph+ ALL).  radotinib shares the recently reported cardiovascular toxicity of nilotinib. Electrocardiographic abnormalities were recorded in 20% of all patients and
Eravacycline | DrugBank Online Eravacycline, known as Xerava by Tetraphase Pharmaceuticals, is a fully synthetic fluorocycline antibiotic of the tetracycline class with activity against clinically significant gram-negative, gram-positive aerobic, and facultative bacteria. This includes most of those bacteria resistant to cephalosporins, fluoroquinolones, β-lactam/β-lactamase inhibitors, multidrug-resistant strains, and carbapenem-resistant Enterobacteriaceae, and the majority of anaerobic pathogens 1. It was first approved by the FDA on August 27, 2018 4. Eravacycline has demonstrated superior potency to that of antibiotics that are currently being marketed for intraabdominal infections 3. This drug is a tetracycline class antibacterial indicated for the treatment of complicated intra-abdominal infections in patients 18 years of age and older Label. Eravacycline is an antibiotic that disrupts bacterial protein synthesis, treating complicated intraabdominal infections Label. Eravacycline is a fluorocycline antibacterial of the tetracycline class of antibacterial drugs. Eravacycline disrupts bacterial protein synthesis by binding to the 30S ribosomal subunit, preventing the incorporation of amino acid residues into elongating peptide chains.
Rucaparib | DrugBank Online Rucaparib is a potent mammalian poly(ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) 1, 2 and 3 inhibitor with anticancer properties. PPAR is an enzyme that plays an essential role in DNA repair by activating response pathways and facilitating repair 2, and defects in these repair mechanisms have been demonstrated in various malignancies, including cancer. Regulation of repair pathways is critical in promoting necessary cell death. BRCA genes are tumor suppressor genes mediate several cellular process including DNA replication, transcription regulation, cell cycle checkpoints, apoptosis, chromatin structuring and homologous recombination (HR). Homologous recombination deficiency (HRD), along with PPAR inhibition, is a vulnerability that enhances the cell death pathway when the single mutations alone would permit viability. Ovarian cancer commonly possesses defects in DNA repair pathways such as HRD due to BRCA mutations or otherwise.  There are three main types of ovarian cancer: epithelial (90%), germ cell (5%) and sex cord stromal cell (5%). Epithelial ovarian, being the most common, fifth leading cause of cancer-related deaths in women in the United States. Advanced ovarian cancer particularly poses challenges due to reduced therapeutic response rates from standard platinum-based chemotherapy and overall survival rates. Rucaparib has shown to induce cytotoxicity in tumor cell lines with deficiencies in BRCA1/2 and other DNA repair genes Label. Of all the BRCA1/2 mutations in ovarian cancer, most are due to germline mutations (18%), and approximately 7% represent somatic mutations acquired within the tumor 4. The indication of rucaparib as an oral monotherapy in patients with deleterious BRCA mutation (germline and/or somatic) associated advanced ovarian cancer was granted accelerated approval in 2016 for selected patients who have previously received greater than two lines of platinum-based therapy. It is currently marketed in the US under the brand name Rubraca that contains rucaparib camsylate as the active ingredient. The identification of patients who are eligible for rucaparib therapy is performed via in vitro diagnostic tests to detect the presence of a deleterious BRCA mutation (germline and/or somatic). The FDA-approved test qualitatively detects sequence alterations in BRCA1 and BRCA2 (BRCA1/2) genes. More information can be found on the FDA Website 8. While rucaparib is indicated for deleterious BRCA mutation (germline and/or somatic)-associated advanced ovarian cancer, there is evidence that its antitumor activity is also clinically effective against ovarian tumors with high homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) loss of heterozygosity (LOH) 4. Indicated as monotherapy for the treatment of patients with deleterious BRCA mutation (germline and/or somatic) associated advanced ovarian cancer who have been treated with two or more chemotherapies. Select patients for therapy based on an FDA-approved companion diagnostic for rucaparib. Rucaparib has been shown to decrease tumor growth in mouse xenograft models of human cancer with or without deficiencies in BRCA Label. The effect of multiple doses of rucaparib on QTc interval was evaluated in an open-label single-arm study in 56 patients with solid tumors who were administered continuous doses of rucaparib ranging from 40 mg once daily (0.03 times the approved recommended dosage) to 840 mg twice daily (1.4 times the approved recommended dosage). The mean QTcF increase from baseline (90% confidence interval [CI]) in population pharmacokinetics estimated 95% percentile Cmax (3019 ng/mL) at steady state of 600 mg rucaparib twice daily was 14.9 msec (11.1-18.7 msec) Label.  Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase (PARP) enzymes play a role in DNA repair. PPAR-1 is responsible in repairing single stranded breaks (SSBs) in base excision repair (BER). PARP1 also functions in nonhomologous end-joining (NHEJ) regulation, chromatin remodeling and homologous recombination (HR) DNA repair pathways 2. When PARP is inhibited, single-strand breaks become double-strand breaks, which are typically repaired via homologous recombination 2. Pre-existing homologous recombination deficiency (HRD) may occur through mutations in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes, which confers persistant cell repair and growth in cancer cells.  Rucaparib is an inhibitor of PARP-1, PARP-2, and PARP-3. Via an inhibitory effect on the PARP enzymatic activity, rucaparib decreases the formation of PARP-DNA complexes resulting in DNA damage, apoptosis, and cell death Label. It is proposed that PARP inhibition specifically targets tumor cells with preexisting HRD, such as those cells possessing mutations in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes 4. Rucaparib induces synthetic lethality by disrupting ingle- and double-strand repair pathways leading to tumor cell death. It is also suggested that PARP inhibition can lead to trapping of PARP-1 enzyme on damaged DNA, effectively preventing continuation of the DNA repair process; defective BRCA1 recruitment to damaged DNA; and activation of alternative DNA repair such as error-prone nonhomologous end joining (NHEJ) or alternative end joining pathways leading to mutations or chromosomal changes and ultimately cell death 4. Rucaparib demonstrates a linear pharmacokinetic properties over a dose range from 240 to 840 mg twice daily with time-independence and dose-proportionality. The mean steady-state rucaparib Cmax was 1940 ng/mL (54% coefficient of variation [CV]) and AUC0-12h was 16900 h⋅ng/mL (54% CV) at the approved recommended dosage. The time to reach the steady-state peak plasma concentration (Tmax) was 1.9 hours at the recommended dosage.
Siponimod | DrugBank Online Siponimod, also known as Mayzent, by Novartis, is a new drug formulated for the management of Multiple Sclerosis (MS). It was approved by the FDA on March 26, 2019 6 and by Health Canada on February 20, 2020.8 This drug is considered a sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulator and is thought to play a role in suppressing the central nervous system inflammation that is associated with MS Label. Multiple Sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune disease of the central nervous system that is chronic and inflammatory, disrupting communication between the brain and other parts of the body. Most patients diagnosed with this illness experience their initial disease symptoms between the age of 20 to 40, often the most productive years of life. Symptoms may include but are not limited to fatigue, gait changes, bowel or bladder dysfunction, abnormal muscle twitching, vision disturbance, and depressing or mood swings.7 MS is one of the most common causes of neurological disability in young adults and is found to occur more frequently in women than in men.1,6 This drug is indicated for the treatment of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis (MS), to include clinically isolated syndrome, relapsing-remitting disease, and active secondary progressive disease in adults Label. Immune system effects Siponimod causes a dose-dependent decrease of the peripheral blood lymphocyte count within 6 hours of the first dose, caused by the reversible accumulation of lymphocytes in lymphoid tissues, due to lack of lymphocyte release Label. This results in a decrease in the inflammation that is involved in multiple sclerosis. Lymphocyte counts return to normal in 90% of patients within 10 days after the cessation of therapy Label. Effects on heart rate and rhythm Siponimod causes a temporary decrease in heart rate and atrioventricular conduction upon beginning treatment. The maximum fall in heart rate is observed in the first 6 hours post ingestion. Autonomic heart responses, including diurnal variation of heart rate and response to exercise activities, are not altered by siponimod treatment Label. Effects on pulmonary function Dose-dependent decreases in absolute forced expiratory volume over a time frame of 1 second were noted in siponimod-treated patients and were higher than in patients taking placebo Label.  Inflammation of the white and gray matter tissues in the central nervous system caused by localized immune cell infiltration and their cytokines are the initial cause of damage in MS. B lymphocytes and their cytokines are other factors in the pathogenesis of MS. Lymphotoxin [or transforming growth factor beta (TGF-β)] and TNF-α produced by these cells encourage inflammation 1. The S1P receptor is an important receptor related to the function of lymphocytes and can be found in the central nervous system 4. S1P receptor (S1PR) signaling is associated with a wide variety of physiological processes for lymphocytes, including their egress and recirculation 2,3.  Siponimod is classified as a sphingosine-1-phosphate (S1P) receptor modulator. Siponimod binds with high affinity to both S1P receptors 1 and 5. This drug blocks the ability of lymphocytes to release from the lymph nodes, decreasing the number of lymphocytes found in the peripheral blood. The mechanism by which siponimod exerts therapeutic effects in multiple sclerosis is not known at this time, but may involve the abovementioned decrease of lymphocytes into the central nervous system, decreasing the inflammatory effects of MS Label. The time (Tmax) to attain maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) after oral administration of immediate-release oral doses of siponimod was found to be approximately 4 hours ( with a range 3 - 8 hours). Siponimod is heavily absorbed (at a rate greater than or equal to 70%). The absolute oral bioavailability of siponimod is about 84%. Steady-state concentrations were attained after approximately 6 days of daily administration of a single dose of siponimod Label.  Effects of food on absorption Food ingestion leads to delayed siponimod absorption (the median Tmax increased by approximately 2-3 hours). Food intake has no effect on the systemic exposure of siponimod (Cmax and AUC). Therefore, siponimod may be taken without regard to food Label. Siponimod distributes to body tissues with an average volume of distribution of 124 L. Siponimod fraction mesaured in plasma is 68% in humans. Animal studies demonstrate that siponimod readily crosses the blood-brain-barrier Label.  Protein binding of siponimod is higher than 99.9% in healthy patients as well as hepatic and renal impaired patients Label.  Because of the high plasma protein binding of siponimod, hemodialysis is not likely to change the total and unbound siponimod concentration and no dose adjustments are expected based on this Label. Siponimod is extensively metabolized, mainly by CYP2C9 enzyme (79.3%), and subsequently by CYP3A4 enzyme (18.5%). The pharmacological activity of the main metabolites M3 and M17 is not expected to be responsible for the clinical effect and the safety of siponimod in humans Label.  Hover over products below to view reaction partners Siponimod is eliminated from the systemic circulation mainly due to metabolism, and subsequent biliary/fecal excretion. Unchanged siponimod was not detected in urine Label. The apparent elimination half-life is approximately 30 hours Label.  Apparent systemic clearance of 3.11 L/h has been estimated in MS patients Label.  Carcinogenesis Oral carcinogenicity studies of siponimod were performed in mice and rats. There was an increase in malignant lymphoma in females at all doses and in hemangiosarcoma and combined hemangioma and hemangiosarcoma at all doses in males and females. The lowest dose tested is approximately 5 times the recommended human dose (RHD) of 2 mg/day Label. Mutagenesis Siponimod was negative in several in vitro (Ames, chromosomal aberration in mammalian cells) and in vivo (micronucleus in mouse and rat) assays Label. Impairment of fertility When siponimod was administered orally (0, 2, 20, or 200 mg/kg) to male rats (mated with untreated females) before and throughout the mating period, there was a dose-related increase in the precoital interval at any dose. A decrease in implantation sites, an increase in preimplantation loss, and a decrease in the number of viable fetuses were noted at the highest dose tested. The higher no-effect dose for adverse effects on fertility (20 mg/kg) is approximately 100 times the recommended human dose Label. When siponimod was administered orally (0, 0.1, 0.3, or 1 mg/kg) to female rats (mated with untreated males) prior to and during mating, and continuing to Day 6 of gestation, no effects on fertility were noted up to the highest dose studied (1 mg/kg). Plasma siponimod exposure (AUC) at the highest dose studied is about 16 times that in humans at the recommended human dose Label.  Use in pregnancy and lactation Siponimod may cause fetal harm, based on the results of animal studies. Because it takes about 10 days to eliminate this drug from the body, women of childbearing potential should use adequate contraception to avoid pregnancy during and for 10 days after the cessation of treatment Label.
Favipiravir | DrugBank Online Discovered by Toyama Chemical Co., Ltd. in Japan, favipiravir is a modified pyrazine analog that was initially approved for therapeutic use in resistant cases of influenza.7,9 The antiviral targets RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) enzymes, which are necessary for the transcription and replication of viral genomes.7,12,13 Not only does favipiravir inhibit replication of influenza A and B, but the drug has shown promise in the treatment of avian influenza, and may be an alternative option for influenza strains that are resistant to neuramidase inhibitors.9,19 Favipiravir has been investigated for the treatment of life-threatening pathogens such as Ebola virus, Lassa virus, and now COVID-19.10,14,15 In 2014, favipiravir was approved in Japan to treat cases of influenza that were unresponsive to conventional treatment.9 Given its efficacy at targetting several strains of influenza, it has been investigated in other countries to treat novel viruses including Ebola and most recently, COVID-19.7,10,17 Favipiravir functions as a prodrug and undergoes ribosylation and phosphorylation intracellularly to become the active favipiravir-RTP.7,10 Favipiravir-RTP binds to and inhibits RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), which ultimately prevents viral transcription and replication.7,8 The mechanism of action of favipiravir is novel compared to existing influenza antivirals that primarily prevent entry and exit of the virus from cells.7 The active favipiravir-RTP selectively inhibits RNA polymerase and prevents replication of the viral genome.18 There are several hypotheses as to how favipiravir-RTP interacts with RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp).7 Some studies have shown that when favipiravir-RTP is incorporated into a nascent RNA strand, it prevents RNA strand elongation and viral proliferation.7 Studies have also found that the presence of purine analogs can reduce favipiravir’s antiviral activity, suggesting competition between favipiravir-RTP and purine nucleosides for RdRp binding.7 Although favipiravir was originally developed to treat influenza, the RdRp catalytic domain (favipiravir's primary target), is expected to be similar for other RNA viruses.7 This conserved RdRp catalytic domain contributes to favipiravir's broad-spectrum coverage.7 The bioavailability of favipiravir is almost complete at 97.6%.18 The mean Cmax for the recommended dosing schedule of favipiravir is 51.5 ug/mL.18 Studies comparing the pharmacokinetic effects of multiple doses of favipiravir in healthy American and Japanese subjects are below:  Japanese subjects First Dose:
Cmax = 36.24 ug/mL
tmax = 0.5 hr
AUC = 91.40 ugxhr/mL American subjects First Dose:
Cmax = 22.01 ug/mL
tmax = 0.5 hr
AUC = 44.11 ugxhr/mL Japanese Subjects Final Dose:
Cmax = 36.23 ug/mL
Tmax = 0.5 hr
AUC = 215.05 ugxhr/mL American Subjects Final Dose:
Cmax = 23.94 ug/mL
Tmax = 0.6 hr
Mogamulizumab | DrugBank Online Mogamulizumab is a humanized monoclonal antibody (mAb) directed against CC chemokine receptor 4 (CCR4) for the treatment of Mycosis Fungoides (MF) and Sézary Syndrome (SS), the most common subtypes of cutaneous T-cell lymphoma. Cutaneous T-cell lymphomas occur when certain white blood cells, called T cells, become cancerous; these cancers typically affect the skin, causing various types of skin lesions 8.  On August 8 2018, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved mogamulizumab injection (also known as Poteligeo) for intravenous use for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory mycosis fungoides (MF) or Sézary syndrome (SS) after at least one prior systemic therapy 7. Mogamulizumab is derived from Kyowa Hakko Kirin's POTELLIGENT (®) technology, which produces antibodies with enhanced antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) activity. Approval in Japan was granted on April 30 2012 by the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare for patients with relapsed or refractory CCR4-positive adult T-cell leukemia-lymphoma 2. For the intravenous use for the treatment of adult patients with relapsed or refractory mycosis fungoides (MF) or Sézary syndrome (SS) after at least one prior systemic therapy. This approval provides a new treatment option for patients with MF and is the first FDA approval of a drug specifically for Sézary Syndrome Label. This drug is a CC chemokine receptor 4 (CCR4) antagonist. It is a monoclonal antibody which blocks T cell proliferation, which leads to malignancy 1, 6.
CCR4 is a chemokine receptor that is preferentially expressed by Th2 and regulatory T (Treg) cells. In response to its ligands, CCL17 (TARC) and CCL22 (MDC), CCR4 promotes T-cell migration to extranodal sites, including the skin 6. Mogamulizumab selectively binds to and inhibits the activity of CCR4, which may block CCR4-mediated signal transduction pathways and, so, chemokine-mediated cellular migration and proliferation of T cells, as well as chemokine-mediated angiogenesis. Additionally, this agent may induce antibody-dependent cell-mediated cytotoxicity (ADCC) against CCR4-positive T cells. CCR4, a G-coupled-protein receptor for C-C chemokines such MIP-1, RANTES, TARC and MCP-1, is expressed on the surfaces of some types of T cells, endothelial cells, and certain types of neurons. CCR4, also known as CD194, may be overexpressed on adult T-cell lymphoma (ATL) and peripheral T-cell lymphoma (PTCL) cells 10. In addition to directly targeting malignant T cells expressing CCR4, mogamulizumab depletes Treg cells, an important therapeutic target in many human cancers because of their role in suppressing host antitumor immunity 6. Following repeated dosing of the approved recommended dosage, steady-state concentrations were reached after 8 doses (12 weeks), and the systemic accumulation was 1.6-fold. At steady state, the peak concentration (Cmax,ss) is 32 (68%) μg/mL, the trough concentration (Cmin,ss) is 11 (239%) μg/mL, and AUCss is 5577 (125%) μg•hr/mL Label. The central volume of distribution is 3.6 L Label. The terminal half-life is 17 days Label. Clearance is 12 mL/h Label. The most common adverse reactions (reported in ≥20% of patients randomized to mogamulizumab) were rash (including drug eruption), infusion-related reactions, fatigue, diarrhea, upper respiratory tract infection and musculoskeletal pain Label. Due to various adverse effects related to this drug, the adverse reactions have been categorized by organ system. Because of the risk of serious/fatal ADRs, patients administered mogamulizumab should be carefully monitored 3. Upper respiratory tract infection: This may occur due to decreased immunity following the administration of this drug. Monitor for signs of respiratory infection including fever, cough and shortness of breath 9. Dermatological: Patients must contact their healthcare provider immediately if they experience a new or worsening skin rash. Treatment should be temporarily interrupted for moderate or severe skin rashes and permanently discontinued for a life-threatening rash. Fatal and life-threatening skin adverse reactions, including Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), have occurred in recipients of mogamulizumab. Rash (drug eruption) is one of the most common adverse reactions associated with mogamulizumab 9, Label. Infusion Reactions: Patients must contact their healthcare provider immediately for signs or symptoms of infusion reactions. Treatment should be suspended for any infusion reaction and permanently discontinued for any life-threatening infusion reaction 9. Infections: Patients must contact their healthcare provider if they experience fever or other signs of infection. Infections should be monitored and treated promptly 9. Autoimmune Complications: Immune-mediated or possibly immune-mediated reactions have included myositis, myocarditis, polymyositis, hepatitis, pneumonitis, and a variant of Guillain- Barré syndrome Label. Patients must notify their healthcare provider of any history of autoimmune disease. Treatment should be suspended or permanently discontinued as appropriate 9.
Phenylbutyric acid | DrugBank Online A monocarboxylic acid the structure of which is that of butyric acid substituted with a phenyl group at C-4. It is a histone deacetylase inhibitor that displays anticancer activity. It inhibits cell proliferation, invasion and migration and induces apoptosis in glioma cells. It also inhibits protein isoprenylation, depletes plasma glutamine, increases production of foetal haemoglobin through transcriptional activation of the γ-globin gene and affects hPPARγ activation. Adjunctive therapy for the management of chronic urea cycle disorders due to deficiencies in carbamylphosphate (CPS), ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC), or argininosuccinic acid synthetase. it is indicated in all neonatal- onset efficiency presenting within the first 28 days of life. Also indicated in patients with late-onset, presenting after the first month of life with a history of hyperammonemic encephalopathy.  Decreases elevated plasma ammonia glutamine levels Sodium phenylbutyrate is a pro-drug that is metabolized to the active compound phenylacetate. Phenylacetate conjuages with glutamine via acetylation reaction to form the product phenylacetylglutamine, which is excreted by the kidneys. This provides an alternative mechanism for waste nitrogen excretion.  Under fasting condition the Cmax of a single orally ingested 5g tablet and 5g powder after 1 hour are respectively 218mcg/ml and 195mcg/ml.
The effect of food on phenylbutyrate absorption is still unknown. The volume of distribution of phenylbutyrate is 0.2 l/kg. phenylbutyrate and Phenylacetate concentrations in the plasma were determined by high-performance liquid chromatography. Both drugs exhibited concentration-dependent binding. Results showed sodium phenylacetate to have a higher free fraction than sodium phenylbutyrate at corresponding concentrations (> 0.442 +/- 0.008 and > 0.188 +/- 0.001, respectively). Both have high free fractions in plasma. The overall disposition of sodium phenylbutyrate and its metabolites has not been characterized fully. However, the drug is known to be metabolized to phenylacetate and subsequently to phenylacetylglutamine.
Metabolism of phenylbutyrate occurs mainly in liver and kidney. Hover over products below to view reaction partners The major route of elimination is the kidneys as phenylacetylglutamine.  For sodium phenylbutyrate the half life is 0.77 hours. For phenylacetate the half life is 1.15 hours.  Within 24 hours 80-100% of the administered dose in eliminated in the urine as pheylacetylglutamine.  Clinical adverse reaction: In females who were menstruating, 23% reported amenorrhea or menstrual dysfunction. In all patients, 4% reported a decreased appetite, and body odor issues, and 3% of patients report a taste aversion. Other adverse events that occurred in less than 2% of patients were abdominal pain, gastritis, nausea and vomiting, constipation, rectal bleeding, peptic ulcer disease, pancreatitis, aplastic anemia, ecchymosis, arrhythmia, edema, renal tubular acidosis, depressions, skin rash, headache, syncope, and weight gain occurring in at least one patient.
Etelcalcetide | DrugBank Online Etelcalcetide is a calcimimetic drug for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism in patients undergoing hemodialysis. Etelcalcetide was approved (trade name Parsabiv) for the treatment of secondary hyperparathyroidism (HPT) in adult patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) on hemodialysis in February, 2017. Etelcalcetide is a calcium-sensing receptor agonist indicated for:
Factor XIII (human) | DrugBank Online Factor XIII (human) is a heat-treated, lyophilized concentrate of coagulation factor XIII, an endogenous enzyme responsible for the crosslinking of fibrin and an essential component of the coagulation cascade Label. For people with congenital deficiency or mutation of Factor XIII, a rare bleeding disorder, exogenous replacement of this key coagulation factor is essential for management and prevention of bleeding episodes.  Also known as Fibrin Stabilizing Factor (FSF), Factor XIII is an endogenously produced coagulation factor and the final enzyme within the blood coagulation cascade. Within the body, FXIII circulates as a heterotetramer composed of 2 A-subunits and 2 B-subunits (A2B2)2. When activated by thrombin at the site of injury, the FXIII pro-enzyme is cleaved resulting in activation of the catalytic A-subunit and dissociation from its carrier B-subunit. As a result, the active transglutaminase from subunit A cross-links fibrin and other proteins resulting in increased mechanical strength and resistance to fibrinolysis of the fibrin clot. This contributes to enhanced platelet and clot adhesion to injured tissue, thereby improving blood coagulation and maintenance of hemostasis 1. Other drug products with similar structure and function to Factor XIII (human) include Catridecacog, which is a recombinant form of the A subunit of human coagulation factor XIII. Compared to Factor XIII (human), which is purified from pooled human plasma, Catridecacog is produced through recombinant DNA technology where the target protein is grown in yeast and then isolated Label. Factor XIII (Human), available as the commercially available product Corifact, is approved by the Food and Drug Administration for routine prophylactic treatment and peri-operative management of surgical bleeding in adult and pediatric patients with congenital FXIII deficiency Label. As the half-life of endogenous Factor XIII is long (5-11 days), prophylactic therapy with the replacement of FXIII can be given every 4-6 to maintain hemostasis2. Factor XIII (Human), available as the commercially available product Corifact, is approved by the Food and Drug Administration for routine prophylactic treatment and peri-operative management of surgical bleeding in adult and pediatric patients with congenital FXIII deficiency Label. Also known as Fibrin Stabilizing Factor (FSF), Factor XIII is an endogenously produced coagulation factor and the final enzyme within the blood coagulation cascade. Within the body, FXIII circulates as a heterotetramer composed of 2 A-subunits and 2 B-subunits (A2B2)2. When activated by thrombin at the site of injury, the FXIII pro-enzyme is cleaved resulting in activation of the catalytic A-subunit and dissociation from its carrier B-subunit. As a result, the active transglutaminase from subunit A cross-links fibrin and other proteins resulting in increased mechanical strength and resistance to fibrinolysis of the fibrin clot. This contributes to enhanced platelet and clot adhesion to injured tissue, thereby improving blood coagulation and maintenance of hemostasis 1. Exogenous replacement of Factor XIII is a cornerstone of treatment for bleeding associated with congenital Factor XIII deficiency.  Tmax = 1.7 ±1.44 hr Label
Tmax = 1.72 hr 3 Cmax = 0.9 ±0.20 units/mL (peak concentration at steady state) Label
Cmax = 87.7% (peak concentration at steady state) 3 Vss = 51.1 mL/kg (volume of distribution at steady state) 3 6.6 ±2.29 days Label
6.6 days 3 0.25 ±0.09 mL/hr/kg Label
Tiapride | DrugBank Online Tiapride is a selective D2 and D3 dopamine receptor blocker in the brain. Tiapride is indicated for the treatment of a variety of neurological and psychiatric disorders including dyskinesia, alcohol withdrawal syndrome, negative symptoms of psychosis, and agitation and aggression in the elderly. Tiapride has a high degree of regional selectivity for limbic areas. One study found that tiapride shows over three times as much affinity for limbic areas than striatal areas as opposed to the near equal selectivity for limbic and striatal regions shown by haloperidol.
Another study in rats found tiapride's affinity for the septum, a limbic region, to be over thirty times as high as for the striatum.
Levosalbutamol | DrugBank Online Levosalbutamol, or levalbuterol, is a short-acting β2 adrenergic receptor agonist used in the treatment of asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).
Lenograstim | DrugBank Online Lenograstim is a recombinant granulocyte colony-stimulating factor used as an immunostimulating agent. The drug is used to reduce the risk of life-threatening infection in patients with neutropenia, particularly after cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Lenograstim is indicated as a treatment to reduce the duration of neutropenia and the severity of infections in patients with non-myeloid malignancy who have undergone autologous or allogeneic bone marrow transplantation, or treatment with established cytotoxic chemotherapy and in addition to reduce the incidence of infection associated with established cytotoxic chemotherapy.
Lenograstim is also indicated to mobilise peripheral blood progenitor cells (PBPCs) with Lenograstim alone, or after myelosuppressive chemotherapy, in order to accelerate haematopoietic recovery by infusion of such cells, after myelosuppressive or myeloablative therapy. Lenograstim is also indicated to accelerate the engraftment of these cells after their reinfusion. GRANOCYTE is also indicated for the treatment of severe chronic neutropenia including congenital agranulocytosis (Kostmann's syndrome). Lenograstim has been confirmed as a valuable adjunct to minimise the haematological toxicity of myelosuppressive chemotherapy in patients with malignant disease. The drug also enhances neutrophil recovery in patients undergoing stem cell rescue, and assists peripheral blood progenitor cells mobilisation. Lenograstim is the glycosylated recombinant form of human granulocyte colony stimulating factor. Lenograstim accelerates neutrophil recovery significantly after chemotherapy, with beneficial effects on clinical end-points such as incidence of laboratory-confirmed infection and length of hospital stay. Chemotherapy dose intensity has also been increased in patients receiving lenograstim, notably those with breast or small cell lung cancer, although improvements in tumour response and survival have not been demonstrated. Lenograstim also assists neutrophil recovery in patients undergoing bone marrow transplantation, and stimulates the production of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCs) for autologous transfusion after aggressive chemotherapy. During repeated dosing (iv and sc routes), peak serum concentrations (at the end of iv infusion or after sc injection) are proportional to the injected dose. Repeated dosing with lenograstim by the two injection routes results in no evidence of drug accumulation. Apparent distribution volume (Vd area) is approximately 52 ± 5 mL/kg body weight. Lenograstim is metabolised to peptides. Lenograstim is poorly excreted in urine as intact compound (less than 1% of the dose). The pharmacokinetic profile of lenograstim is similar in healthy volunteers and cancer patients with elimination half-life (t½β) values of 2.3 - 3.3 hrs (volunteers); 2.8-7.5 hrs (cancer patients) following sc administration, and 0.8 - 2.1 hrs (volunteers); 1.1 - 4.0 hrs (cancer patients) following iv administration. Plasma clearance of lenograstim increased 3-fold (from 50 up to 150 mL/min) during repeated sc dosing. Species observed : Human (Man)
Test type: TDLo ( Lowest Published Toxic Dose)
Route of exposure: Subcutaneous
Dose/Duration: 21428mg/kg/15
Toxic Effect:
Skin and appendages: Dermatitis, allergic ( after systemic exposure ) Species observed : Rodent - Rat
Test type: LD50
Route of exposure: Oral
Dose/Duration: >5mg/kg
Toxic Effect: Details of toxic effects not reported other than lethal dose value Species observed : Rodent - Rat
Test type: LD50
Route of exposure: Subcutaneous
Dose/Duration: >5mg/kg
Toxic Effect: Details of toxic effects not reported other than lethal dose value Species observed : Rodent - Rat
Test type: LD50
Route of exposure: Intravenous
Dose/Duration: >5mg/kg
Toxic Effect: Details of toxic effects not reported other than lethal dose value Species observed : Mammal - Dog
Test type: LD50
Route of exposure: Intravenous
Dose/Duration: >5mg/kg
Toxic Effect: Details of toxic effects not reported other than lethal dose value Species observed : Mammal - Dog
Test type: LD50
Route of exposure: Subcutaneous
Dose/Duration: >5mg/kg
Anti-inhibitor coagulant complex | DrugBank Online Anti-inhibitor coagulant complex, also known as FEIBA (factor eight inhibitor bypassing activity), contains several proteins involved in the prothrombinase complex. It is used to control bleeding in hemophilia A and B patients with inhibitors. For use in the control of bleeding episodes, perioperative management, and routine prophylaxis against bleeding episodes in hemophilia A and B patients with inhibitors Label. It is not indicated in the absence of factor VIII or IX inhibitors. FEIBA contains several clotting factors which act at various points in the caogulation cascade to promote thrombosis 1. Factor VIIa present in FEIBA forms a complex with tissue factor and calcium which converts endogenous and FEIBA contained factor X to Xa 1 2. Endogenous and FEIBA contained factor Xa act as parrt of the prothrombinase complex to convert endogenous and FEIBA contained prothrombin to thrombin. Endogenous and FEIBA contained thrombin then cleave fibrinogen to insulouble fibrin and activate factor XIII which covalently cross-links fibrin to form a polymer mesh. FEIBA also contains factor IX and IXa which act as part of the tenase complex to convert factor X to Xa. Thrombin activates factor V, VII, and VIII as part of the amplification phase of the clotting cascade. These events promote the formation of blood clots to prevent or stop bleeding.  Plasma half lives of included clotting factors are as follows 2:
Prothrombin - 65h
Factor VII - 5h
Factor IX - 25h
Parachlorophenol | DrugBank Online P-chlorophenol is a white crystals with a strong phenol odor. Slightly soluble to soluble in water, depending on the isomer, and denser than water. Noncombustible. Used as an intermediate in organic synthesis of dyes and drugs.
Local antibacterial agent in root canal therapy, as topical antiseptic in ointments The major mode of action of chlorophenols appears to be the uncoupling of oxidative phosphorylation. The strength of the uncoupling effect is related to the degree of chlorination: PCP is the strongest inhibitor of oxidative phosphorylation, MCP the weakest. To a lesser extent, inhibition of oxidative phosphorylation is affected by the positions of the chlorine atoms on the molecule.  absorbed from gastrointestinal tract. P-Chlorophenol yields p-chloroanisole in guinea pigs.
P-Chlorophenol yields 4-chlorocatechol p-chloro phenyl-beta-D-glucuronide & p-chlorphenyl sulfate in rabbits.
P-Chlorophenol yields p-chlorophenyl sulfate in rats. 87% of 4-chlorophenol was excreted in urine of dogs as sulfate and glucuronide. Signs and symptoms in human : When undiluted, it whitens & cauterizes the skin & mucous membranes. 4-chlorophenol was shown to permeate the skin. It produces damage at a threshold concentration of 0.75% (w/v). Routes of Entry: Absorbed through skin. Eye contact.
Toxicity to Animals:
Acute oral toxicity (LD50): 367 mg/kg [Mouse]. Acute dermal toxicity (LD50): 1500 mg/kg [Rat].
Chronic Effects on Humans:
CARCINOGENIC EFFECTS: Classified 2B (Possible for human.) by IARC. DEVELOPMENTAL TOXICITY: Classified
Reproductive system/toxin/male, Development toxin [POSSIBLE]. May cause damage to the following organs: liver, brain,
gastrointestinal tract, upper respiratory tract, central nervous system (CNS).
Esculin | DrugBank Online Esculin is found in barley. Vitamin C2 is generally considered a bioflavanoid, related to vitamin P esculin is a glucoside that naturally occurs in the horse chestnut (Aesculus hippocastanum), California Buckeye (Aesculus californica) and in daphnin (the dark green resin of Daphne mezereum). Esculin belongs to the family of Glycosyl Compounds. These are carbohydrate derivatives in which a sugar group is bonded through its anmoeric carbonA to another group via a C-, S-,N-,O-, or Se- glycosidic bond. As medication, esculin is sometimes used as a vasoprotective agent.
Esculin is also used in a microbiology laboratory to aid in the identification of bacterial species (especially Enterococci and Listeria), as all strains of Group D Streptococci hydrolyze æsculin in 40% bile. Topically applied Esculine increases the “capillary density” (the number of capillaries open to flow per surface unit) and improves the morphological aspect of the smallest blood vessels. The main activities of Esculine focus on capillary protection, as it improves capillary permeability and fragility. It is reported to inhibit catabolic enzymes such as hyaluronidase and collagenase, thus preserving the integrity of the perivascular connective tissue. Esculine also showed good antioxidant properties, protecting triglycerides against auto-oxidation at high temperatures . The antioxidant property might as well explain some of the anti-inflammatory activity of the product, making it a suitable product for after sun treatments, for example. Rarely, absorbed into the blood stream if used as a combination with other ingredients in suppository form. But, Applying cream or ointment form to open wound or skin may lead this drug to absorb and circulate into blood stream. After oral administration of esculin (100 mg/kg) for rats, plasma, urine, feces and bile samples were collected to screen metabolites. As a result, a total of 19 metabolites (10 phase I metabolites and 9 phase II metabolites) were found and identified. It was also found that after oral administration of esculin, the esculin could be metabolized to esculetin in vivo via deglycosylation, and esculetin was found in all biological samples. Absorption half life about 1 hour and elimination half life about 20 hours Organism : Mouse
Test type : LD50
Route: Intraperitoneal
Reported dose: 1900mg/kg
Inosine pranobex | DrugBank Online Inosine pranobex (Isoprinosine or Methisoprinol) is a combination of inosine, acetamidobenzoic acid, and dimethylaminoisopropanol used as an antiviral drug. Inosine pranobex is also indicated for mucocutaneous infections due to herpes simplex virus (type 1 and type II) and for treatment of genital warts as adjunctive therapy to podophyllin or carbon dioxide laser.  Works by slowing the growth and spread of the virus in the body. It may also stimulate the immune system in the body, which helps to increase the body's ability to fight these infections. Inosine pranobex stimulates cell-mediated immune processes to viral infections. Rapidly absorbed from GIT Via urine 50 min Mouse LD50 (Intravenous ): 1570 mg/kg
Muse LD50 (Oral) : 9410mg/kg
Clobetasone | DrugBank Online Clobetasone is a corticosteroid that is often employed topically as a treatment for a variety of conditions such as eczema, psoriasis, various forms of dermatitis, and also for certain ophthalmologic conditions. Topical clobetasone butyrate has shown minimal suppression of the Hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis. In dermatology, topical clobestasone butyrate helps to reduce the itchiness and erythema associated with eczema and dermatitis.
In ophthalmology, clobetasone butyrate 0.1% eye drops have been shown to be safe and effective in the treatment of dry eyes in Sjögren's Syndrome. Topical corticosteroid like clobetasone are synthetic derivatives of cortisone which produce anti-inflammatory, antiproliferative, immunosuppressive and vasoconstrictor effects when applied to the skin. Topically applied clobeyasone are thought to bind with cytoplasmic receptors in the dermal and intradermal cells and to induce inhibitory proteins, thus leading to decreased activity of prostaglandins, kinins, histamine, liposomal enzymes and other endogenous mediators of inflammation. Topical corticosteroids inhibit the migration of macrophages and leukocytes into areas of inflamed skin by reversing vascular dilation and permeability, resulting in decreased erythema, edema and pruritus. Absorption is dependent on many drug-related factors including: intrinsic properties of the steroid itself; concentration of the drug (increased concentration generally leads to more drug being absorbed but may plateau at higher concentrations); vehicle used (optimized or augmented vehicles > ointments or gels > creams or lotions); duration of exposure; frequency of application; combination with other products that break down the skin barrier and increase absorption (e.g., salicylic acid, urea). Patient-related factors that influence absorption include: patient age (infants and children absorb topical medications more quickly and to a greater degree than adults, and have a greater total skin surface to body weight ratio; the elderly have thinner skin and absorb drug more readily); disruption of the skin due to inflammation or disease (e.g., absorption increased in atopic dermatitis); total skin area treated; skin site treated (absorption is much greater from thin-skinned areas such as scalp, face, eyelid, axilla, and scrotum than from areas with thicker skin such as forearm, knee, elbow, palm and sole); absorption is increased with increased temperature or humidity of the skin or the environment; occlusion of the treated skin (via plastic wrap, oily vehicles, dressings, tape, diapers, tight-fitting clothing, etc.) can increase absorption up to 10-fold. The use of pharmacodynamic endpoints for assessing the systemic exposure of topical corticosteroids is necessary due to the fact that circulating levels are well below the level of detection. Once absorbed through the skin, topical corticosteroids are handled through pharmacokinetic pathways similar to systemically administered corticosteroids. They are metabolised, primarily in the liver. Clobetasone and its metabolites are excreted in urine. N/A Organism : Mouse
Test type: LD50 Oral (Reported dose: >6gm/kg)
LD50 Subcutaneous ( >3600mg/kg )
Effects : Behavioral : somnolence ( general depressed activity )
Blood changes in spleen  Organism : Mouse
Test type: LD50
Route: Intraperitoneal
Reported dose: 500 mg/kg LD50 rat : 1510mg/kg Intraperitoneal
LD50 rat >6gm/kg Oral
Nusinersen | DrugBank Online An antisense oligonucleotide that induces survival motor neuron (SMN) protein expression, it was approved by the U.S. FDA in December, 2016 as Spinraza for the treatment of children and adults with spinal muscular atrophy (SMA). It is adminstrated as direct intrathecal injection. Indicated for the treatment of spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) in pediatric and adult patients.  Autopsy samples from patients (n=3) had higher levels of SMN2 messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) containing exon 7 in the thoracic spinal cord compared to untreated SMA infants.
Cardiac Electrophysiology: In 121 patients with spinal muscular atrophy who received either nusinersen or sham-control, QTcF values >500 ms and change from baseline values >60 ms were observed in 5% of patients receiving nusinersen. Compared to the sham-control, there was no increase in the incidence of cardiac adverse reactions associated with delayed ventricular repolarization in patients treated with nusinersen.  Nusinersen is a survival motor neuron-2 (SMN2)-directed antisense oligonucleotide (ASO) designed to treat SMA caused by mutations in chromosome 5q that lead to SMN protein deficiency. Using in vitro assays and studies in transgenic animal models of SMA, nusinersen was shown to increase exon 7 inclusion in SMN2 messenger ribonucleic acid (mRNA) transcripts and production of full-length SMN protein.
Nusinersen acts to replace the SMN protein deficit which causes SMA, by increasing the splicing efficiency of the SMN2 pre- mRNA. More specifically, nusinersen in an 18-mer 2’-MOE phosphorothioate antisense oligonucleotide that acts as a splice-altering oligonucleotide. Nusinersen was designed to pair with a specific target sequence on the SMN2 pre-mRNA to displace heterogeneous ribonucleoproteins (hnRNPs) at the intronic splice silencing site-1 (ISS-1) between exons 7 and 8 to allow for more complete translation of SMN protein from the paralogous gene SMN2.
Further reinforcing this concept, SMA phenotype is closely tied to SMN2 copy number. SMN2 serves to produce SMN protein, however at a greatly reduced rate because of differential splicing caused by the binding of the hnRNPs at the ISS-1. Intrathecal injection of nusinersen into the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) allows it to be distributed from the CSF to the target central nervous system (CNS) tissues. Following intrathecal administration, trough plasma concentrations of nusinersen were relatively low, compared to the trough CSF concentration. Median plasma Tmax values ranged from 1.7 to 6.0 hours. Mean plasma Cmax and AUC values increased approximately dose-proportionally up to a dose of 12 mg.  CSF: 0.4 L
Plasma: 29 L CSF: < 25%
Alclofenac | DrugBank Online Alclofenac is a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug. It was withdrawn from the market in the United Kingdom in 1979. Alclofenac is indicated in rheumatology, in particular for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis and, as an analgesic, in painful arthritic pathologies. Alclofenac is an inhibitor of prostaglandin H2 synthase. The inhibition of the enzyme occurs through the reversible block of cyclooxygenase enzyme. Therefore, it prevents the production of inflammatory mediators (and pain) as prostacyclins and prostaglandins. Aclofenac has the ability to inhibit the biosynthesis of prostaglandins which may be an important factor in the action of these drugs, but in addition, the effect of these agents in displacing endogenous anti-inflammatory substances from plasma protein binding sites is thought to be an equally important effect in their mechanism of action The absorption of alclofenac from the gastrointestinal tract is irregular. After oral or rectal administration maximum plasma concentrations are reached within 1-4 hours.  The volume of distribution is 0.1 L / kg The binding to plasma proteins is 90-99%. the main metabolic product is alclofenac itself and alclofenac glucuronide Alclofenac is excreted in the urine mainly as glucuronide and as unchanged active substance. The plasma half-life varies between 1.5 and 5.5 hours.  For oral dose of 500mg:
Renal clearance constant (av) 35ml/min
Overall clearance constant (av) 37-69ml/min The lethal dose
orally: 1100 (mice), 1050 (rats) mg / kg ;
under the skin: 600 (mice), 630 (rats) mg / kg
Omega-6 fatty acids | DrugBank Online Omega-6 fatty acids are polyunsaturated fatty acids with a final carbon-carbon double bond in the n-6 position, that is, the sixth bond, counting from the methyl end. They are a family of fatty acid molecules that act as precursors to potent lipid mediator signalling molecules with either pro-inflammatory and anti-inflammatory effects. Cells involved in the inflammatory response are typically rich in the n-6 fatty acid arachidonic acid, as generally, eicosanoids derived from n-6 PUFA are pro-inflammatory. Arachidonic acid, which is a main precursor of eicosanoids, is an example of omega-6 (n-6) polyunsaturated fatty acids. Vegetable oil is a major dietary sources of omega-6 fatty acids. There are no current pharmacotherapeutic products based on omega-6 fatty acids.  Omega-6 fatty acids mediate pro-inflammatory effects in the cellular level and compete for the same rate-limiting enzymes with omega-3 fatty acids. Arachidonic acid is converted to inflammatory mediators such as omega-6 prostaglandins and leukotriene eicosanoids during the inflammatory cascade. AA-derived eicosanoids are proinflammatory but they have important homeostatic functions in regulating both the promotion and resolution of inflammation in the immune response. It is reported that high intake of n-6 PUFA, along with low intakes of n-3 PUFA, shifts the physiological state to one that is proinflammatory and prothrombotic with increases in vasospasm, vasoconstriction, and blood viscosity and the development of diseases associated with these conditions. Thus maintaining the balance between 2 polyunsaturated fatty acids is critical in inflammatory cascade regulation.  Linoleic acid is the simplest omega-6 fatty acid that can generate longer n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids such as eicosanoids, endocannabinoids and lipoxins by the insertion of additional double bonds during consecutive elongation and desaturation mechanisms. It gives rise to arachidonic acid (AA) via γ-linolenic acid (GLA, 18:3n-6) and dihomo-γ-linolenic acid (DGLA, 20:3n-6) and the same set of enzymes can also convert AA to EPA and DHA. The initial rate limiting desaturation of LA to GLA is catalysed by the enzyme delta-6-desaturase (FADS2) and elongation of GLA to DGLA by delta-5-desaturase (FADS1) generates AA 1. AA is also converted to 2-series prostaglandins (PGD2, PGE2, PGF2, PGI2) andthromboxanes (TXA2, TXB2) by COX-2 activity and 4-series leukotrienes (LTA4, LTB4, LTC4, LTD4, LTE4) by 5-LOX activity. Resulting lipid signalling molecules have various pro-inflammatory effects on target tissues and cells; bronchostriction, fever, pain, increased production of inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-alpha and IL-6, platelet aggregation, vasoconstriction, vascular permeability, chemotaxis of leukocytes, and release of reactive oxygen species by granulocytes 1.
Plecanatide | DrugBank Online Plecanatide is a drug approved in January 2017 by the FDA for the treatment of chronic idiopathic constipation (CIC). It should not be used in children less than six years of age, and should be avoided in patients six years to 18 years of age Plecanatide stimulates intestinal fluid secretions in the gastrointestinal tract to support regular bowel function. Plecanatide, taken orally once daily, works locally in the upper GI tract to stimulate secretion of intestinal fluid and support regular bowel function. Food Effect Subjects who received either a low-fat, low calorie (LF-LC) meal or a high fat, high calorie (HF-HC) meal reported looser stools than fasted subjects up to 24 hours after a single dose of 9 mg (3 times the recommended dose). In clinical studies, Plecanatide was administered with or without food. Guanylate cyclase C (GC-C) agonist
Plecanatide and its active metabolite bind to GC-C and act locally on the luminal surface of intestinal epithelial cells; GC-C activation leads to increased cyclic guanosine monophosphate (cGMP), which, in turn, stimulates secretion of chloride and bicarbonate into the intestinal lumen, mainly by activation of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) ion channel, resulting in increased intestinal fluid and accelerated transit.
In animal models, plecanatide has been shown to increase fluid secretion into the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, accelerate intestinal transit, and cause changes in stool consistency.
In an animal model of visceral pain, plecanatide reduced abdominal muscle contractions, a measure of intestinal pain. The mechanism has not been studied.  Plecanatide is minimally absorbed with negligible systemic availability following oral administration.
Cerliponase alfa | DrugBank Online Cerliponase alfa is an enzyme replacement treatment for a specific form of Batten disease. It was the first FDA-approved treatment to slow loss of walking ability (ambulation) in symptomatic pediatric patients 3 years of age and older with late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis type 2 (CLN2), also known as tripeptidyl peptidase-1 (TPP1) deficiency. Intraventricular administration of the drug allows significant uptake into the brain. Cerliponase alfa was approved in April, 2017 (as Brineura). Cerliponase alfa is a treatment for late infantile neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis type 2 (CLN2) disease to decelerate the progressive motor function decline in patients 3 years of age and older. CLN2 disease is a form of Batten disease, a rare inherited neurodegenerative disorder and is associated with seizures, ataxia, rapid loss of language and motor functions, blindness, and early death 4. It is caused by the lack the lysosomal enzyme tripeptidyl peptidase-1 (TPP1) and subsequent accumulation of lysosomal storage materials normally metabolized by this enzyme in the central nervous system. Cerliponase alfa contains the active substance tripeptidyl peptidase-1 (rhTPP1), a recombinant human lysosomal exopeptidase which cleaves the N-terminal of tripeptides with a broad substrate specificity. Cerliponase alfa slows the progressive decline in motor function caused by abnormal motor signalling in the brain by restoring the normal levels and activity of TPP1.  The mature form of enzyme contains 5 consensus N-glycosylation sites with high mannose, phosphorylated high mannose and complex glycosylation structures. It is taken up by LINCL fibroblasts and translocated to the lysosomes through the Cation Independent Mannose-6-Phosphate Receptor (CI-MPR, also known as
Pepsin | DrugBank Online Pepsin is a potent enzyme in gastric juice that digests proteins such as those in meat, eggs, seeds, and dairy products 12. Studies on gastric digestion from 1820-1840 led to the discovery of pepsin as the substance which, in the presence of stomach acid, causes nutrients including meat or coagulated egg whites to dissolve. Soon afterward, it was shown that these protein nutrients were cleaved by pepsin to products called peptones 2. Pepsin is often used as a replacement enzyme for those with pancreatic insufficiency 11. Stimulation of the pancreas and therefore enzymatic digestion of food is a tightly controlled and is a hormonally mediated process. Any changes or conditions affecting metabolic steps for successful digestion and absorption negatively affect pancreatic enzymatic secretion, entry into the intestine, functionality once inside the intestine, and appropriate mixing with foods/nutrients. Many causes of pancreatic insufficiency require that enzyme replacement therapy is started, including cystic fibrosis, pancreatic cancer, acute and chronic pancreatitis, as well as pancreatic surgery 11. Pepsin is approved by the FDA and is used in food at levels not to exceed current good manufacturing practice 17.
Guanoxan | DrugBank Online Guanoxan is an antihypertensive agent similar in its mechanism of action to guanethidine; may cause liver damage.
Magnesium pidolate | DrugBank Online Pidolic acid is a naturally occurring but little-studied amino acid derivative that can be formed enzymatically or non-enzymatically and participates as a biological intermediate with unique pharmacodynamics in various chemical pathways 4,7. Elevations of the acid in blood levels may be associated with problems of glutamine or glutathione metabolism 7. Pidolic acid, in general, is found in large quantities in brain tissue and other tissues in bound form, like skin 7. There are currently little to no medicines available that are clinically approved or marketed for employing pidolic acid as an active ingredient for any particular formal indication. Although pidolic acid is included in some over-the-counter, non-prescription dietary supplements for the proposed purpose of facilitating cognitive or memory enhancement, most available research suggest exercising caution in their recommendation as much more research is necessary 1,2.
Sodium propionate | DrugBank Online Sodium propionate is the sodium salt of propionic acid that exists as colorless, transparent crystals or a granular crystalline powder. It is considered generally recognized as safe (GRAS) food ingredient by FDA, where it acts as an antimicrobial agent for food preservation and flavoring agent. Its use as a food additive is also approved in Europe. Sodium propionate is is prepared by neutralizing propionic acid with sodium hydroxide. Sodium propionate was previously approved in Canada as an active ingredient in Amino-Cerv (used to treat inflammation or injury of the cervix).
Cisatracurium besylate | DrugBank Online Cisatracurium is a nondepolarizing skeletal muscle relaxant for intravenous administration. Cisatracurium acts on cholinergic receptors, blocking neuromuscular transmission. This action is antagonized by acetylcholinesterase inhibitors such as neostigmine. The neuromuscular block produced by cisatracurium besylate is readily antagonized by anticholinesterase agents once recovery has started. As with other nondepolarizing neuromuscular blocking agents, the more profound the neuromuscular block at the time of reversal, the longer the time required for recovery of neuromuscular function. Compared to other neuromuscular blocking agents, it is intermediate in its onset and duration of action.
Cycloguanil embonate | DrugBank Online Cycloguanil is the active metabolite of proguanil.
Potassium gluconate | DrugBank Online Potassium gluconate is a salt of Potassium cation and is classified as a food additive by the FDA 7. It is also used as a potassium supplement 10.  Potassium is an essential nutrient. It is the most abundant cation in the intracellular fluid, where it plays a key role in maintaining cell function 1. In dietary supplements, potassium is often present as potassium chloride, but many other forms—including potassium citrate, phosphate, aspartate, bicarbonate, and gluconate—are also used 5. Potassium gluconate is believed to be more palatable and non-acidifying than potassium chloride (KCl) 11. Because of potassium’s wide-ranging roles in the body, low intakes can increase the risk of illness 8. Potassium supplements are indicated to prevent hypokalemia in patients who would be at particular risk if hypokalemia were to develop (e.g., digitalis treated patients with significant cardiac arrhythmias). Potassium deficiency occurs when the rate of loss through renal excretion and/or loss from the gastrointestinal tract is higher than the rate of potassium intake. In addition to serving as a preventative supplement, potassium gluconate also serves as a treatment for decreased potassium levels 8, 4, 10. Potassium is an essential nutrient. It is the most abundant cation in intracellular fluid, where it plays a key role in maintaining cell function, especially in excitable cells such as skeletal muscles, the heart, and nerves 3.
Increases in interstitial potassium play an important role in eliciting rapid vasodilation, allowing for blood flow to increase in exercising muscle 13. Potassium is the most abundant cation (approximately 150 to 160 mEq per liter) within human cells. Intracellular sodium content is relatively low. In the extracellular fluid, sodium predominates and the potassium content is low (3.5 to 5 mEq per liter). A membrane-bound enzyme, sodium-potassium–activated adenosinetriphosphatase (Na +K +ATPase), actively transports or pumps sodium out and potassium into cells to maintain the concentration gradients. The intracellular to extracellular potassium gradients are necessary for nerve impulse signaling in such specialized tissues as the heart, brain, and skeletal muscle, and for the maintenance of physiologic renal function and maintenance of acid-base balance. High intracellular potassium concentrations are necessary for numerous cellular metabolic processes 8. Intracellular K+ serves as a reservoir to limit the fall in extracellular potassium concentrations occurring under pathologic conditions with loss of potassium from the body 13. Potassium is rapidly and well absorbed. A 2016 dose-response trial found that humans absorb about 94% of potassium gluconate in supplements, and this absorption rate is similar to that of potassium from potatoes 2. Distribution is largely intracellular, but it is the intravascular concentration that is primarily
Sodium tartrate | DrugBank Online Sodium tartrate is a disodium salt of l-( + )-tartaric acid that is identified by transparent, colorless, and odorless crystals. It is obtained as a byproduct of wine manufacturing. Sodium tartrate is generally recognized as safe (GRAS) as a direct human food ingredient. It acts as an emulsifier and pH control agent in food products 1. This compound is commonly used as an emulsifier in cheese/cheese spread products and is not to exceed 4% concentration, according to Health Canada regulations 5. It acts as an emulsifier and pH control agent in food products 1, 9.
Fenofibric acid | DrugBank Online Fenofibric acid is a lipid-lowering agent that is used in severe hypertriglyceridemia, primary hyperlipidemia, and mixed dyslipidemia. It works to decrease elevated low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, total cholesterol, triglycerides, apolipoprotein B, while increasing high-density lipoprotein cholesterol.1,5 Due to its high hydrophilicity and poor absorption profile,1 prodrug ,fenofibrate, and other conjugated compounds of fenofibric acid, such as choline fenofibrate, have been developed for improved solubility, gastrointestinal absorption, and bioavailability, and more convenient administration.1,3 For use as an adjunctive therapy to diet to: (a) reduce triglyceride levels in adult patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia, and (b) reduce elevated total cholesterol, low-density-lipoprotein (LDL-C), triglycerides, and apolipoprotein B, and to increase high-density-lipoprotein (HDL-C) in adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia or mixed dyslipidemia (Fredrickson Types IIa and IIb). Label Various clinical studies have shown that elevated levels of total cholesterol, low-desnsity-lipoprotein (LDL-C), and apolipoprotein B (apo B) - an LDL membrane complex - are associated with human atherosclerosis Label. Concurrently, decreased levels of high-density-lioprotein (HDL-C) and its transport complex, apolipoproteins apo AI and apo AII, are associated with the development of atherosclerosis Label. Furthermore, epidemiological investigations demonstrate that cardiovascular morbidity and mortality vary directly with the levels of total cholesterol, LDL-C, and triglycerides, and inversely with the level of HDL-C Label. Fenofibric acid, the active metabolite of fenofibrate, subsequently produces reductions in total cholesterol, LDL-C, apo B, total triglycerides, and triglyceride rich lipoprotein (VLDL) in treated patients Label. Moreover, such treatment with fenofibrate also results in increases in HDL-C and apo AI and apo AII Label.  Having performed clinical studies with in vivo transgenic mice and in vitro human hepatocyte cultures, it is believed that the principal mechanism of action of fenofibric acid is demonstrated through its capability to activate peroxisome proliferator receptor alpha (PPAR-alpha) Label. By activating PPAR-alpha, fenofibric acid increases lipolysis and the elimination of triglyceride-rich particles from plasma by actuating lipoprotein lipase and reducing production of apoprotein C-III, which acts as an inhibitor of lipoprotein lipase activity Label. The resultant decrease in triglycerides causes an alteration in the size and composition of low-density-lipoprotein from small, dense particles to large, buoyant ones Label. The size of these larger low-density-lipoprotein particles have a greater affinity for cholesterol receptors and are therefore catabolized more rapidly Label. Additionally, fenofibric acid's activation of PPAR-alpha also induces an increase in the synthesis of apoproteins apo A-I, apo A-II, and high-density-lipoprotein Label. Moreover, the use of fenofibric acid can also act to reduce serum uric acid levels in ordinary or hyperuricemic individuals by increasing the urinary excretion of uric acid Label. Some studies have demonstrated that the bioavailability of fenofibric acid (a sample administration of 130 mg oral suspension to healthy volunteers about 4 hours after a light breakfast) is approximately 81% in the stomach, 88% in the proximal small bowel, 84% in the distal small bowel, and 78% in the colon 1. Nevertheless, following the oral administration of fenofibric acid in healthy volunteers, median peak plasma levels for the drug occurred about 2.5 hours after administration Label. Moreover, exposure after administration of three 35 mg fenofibric acid tablets is largely comparable to that of one 105 mg tablet Label. The volume of distribution for fenofibric acid is demonstrated to be 70.9 +/- 27.5 L 2. Fenofibric acid demonstrates serum protein binding of approximately 99% in ordinary and hyperlipidemic subjects Label. In vitro and in vivo metabolism studies reveal that fenofibric acid does not experience significant oxidative metabolism via the cytochrome P450 isoenzymes Label. The CYP1A2, CYP2A6, CYP2B6, CYP2C8, CYP2C9, CYP2C19, CYP2D6, CYP2E1, and CYP3A4 enzymes are not known to play a role in the metabolism of fenofibric acid Label. Rather, fenofibric acid is predominantly conjugated with glucuronic acid and then excreted in urine Label. A small amount of fenofibric acid is reduced at the carbonyl moiety to benzhydrol metabolite which is, in turn, conjugated with glucuronic acid and excreted in urine Label. Fenofibric acid metabolites are largely excreted in the urine Label. Following once daily dosing, fenofibric acid demonstrates an elimination associated with a half-life of about 20 hours after absorption Label. In five elderly volunteers aged 77 to 87, the oral clearance of fenofibric acid after a single oral dose of fenofibrate was 1.2 L/h, which compares to 1.1 L/h in young adults Label. Oral LD50 (rat): 1242 mg/kg, Oral LD50 (mouse): 100 mg/kg, lntraperitoneal LD50 (mouse): 500 mg/kg MSDS Fenofibric acid is contraindicated for: (a) patients with severe renal impairment, including those receiving dialysis, (b) patients with active liver disease, including those with primary biliary cirrhosis and unexplained persistent liver function abnormalities, (c) patients with preexisting gallbladder disease, (d) patients with known hypersensitivity to fenofibric acid or Fenofibrate, and (e) nursing mothers Label. The relationship between the use of fenofibric acid and risk of mortality and coronary heart disease morbidity has not been formally established Label. However, a number of studies involving fenofibrate and agents that are chemically and pharmacologically similar to fenofibrate demonstrate inconclusive results. In the Fenofibrate Intervention and Event Lowering in Diabetes (FIELD) study, a non-significant 11% (HR 1.11 [0.95, 1.29], p=0.18) and 19% (HR 1.19 [0.90, 1.57], p=0.22) increase in total and coronary heart disease mortality, respectively, with Fenofibrate as compared to placebo Label. For the Coronary Drug Project, a large study of post myocardial infarction of patients treated for 5 years with clofibrate, there was a difference in the rate of cholelithiasis and cholecystitis requiring surgery between the clofibrate and placebo groups of 3.0% vs. 1.8%, respectively Label. The World Health Organization (WHO) also conducted a study in which 5000 subjects without known coronary artery disease were treated with placebo or clofibrate for 5 years and followed for an additional year Label. The results involved a statistically significant, higher age-adjusted all-cause mortality in the clofibrate group compared with the placebo group (5.70% vs. 3.96%, p<0.01) in which excess mortality was due to a 33% increase in non-cardiovascular causes, including malignancy, post-cholecystectomy complications, and pancreatitis Label. With the Helsinki Heart Study, 4081 middle aged men without a history of coronary artery disease were given either placebo or gemfibrozil for 5 years, with a 3.5 year open extension afterward Label. Although total mortality was numerically higher in the gemfibrozil arm, it was statistically significant (p=0.19, 95% confidence interval for relative risk = 0.91-1.64). Finally, a secondary prevention component of the Helsinki Heart Study observed middle aged men not included in the primary prevention study because they had known or suspected coronary heart disease Label. When these subjects were administered gemfibrozil or placebo therapy for 5 years, cardiac deaths trended higher in the gemfibrozil group but was ultimately not statistically significant (HR 2.2, 95% confidence interval: 0.94-5.05) Label. Fibrates facilitate the risk for myopathy and have been associated with rhabdomyolysis Label. The risk for serious muscle toxicity appears to be increased in elderly patients and in patients with diabetes, renal failure, or hypothyroidism Label. Myopathy should be considered in any patient with diffuse myalgia, muscle tenderness or weakness, and/or marked elevations of creatine phosphokinase levels Label. Fenofibrate administered across a range of doses with the higher dose equivalent to 105 mg fenofibric acid has been associated with increases in serum transaminases like AST (SGOT) and ALT (SGPT) Label. In a pooled analysis of 10 placebo-controlled trials, increases to more than 3 times the upper limit of normal of ALT occurred in 5.3% of patients taking Fenofibrate versus 1.1% of patients treated with placebo Label. If enzyme levels persist above three times the normal limit, therapy is to be discontinued Label. After discontinuing fenofibrate treatment or during continued treatment a return to normal transaminase limits was usually observed Label. The incidence of increases in transaminases observed with fenofibrate therapy appear to be dose related Label. From an 8 week dose-ranging study, the incidence of ALT or AST elevations to at least three times the upper limit of normal was 13% in patients receiving dosages equivalent to 35 mg to 105 mg fenofibric acid per day and was comparatively 0% in those receiving placebo or doses equivalent to 35 mg or less fenofibric acid per day Label. Hepatocellular, chronic active and cholestatic hepatitis associated with Fenofibrate therapy have been reported after exposures of weeks to several years Label. In extremely rare cases, cirrhosis has been reported in associated with chronic active hepatitis Label. Increases in serum creatinine have been reported in patients on Fenofibrate Label. These elevations tend to return to baseline following discontinuation of the drug Label. Although the clinical significance of these observations is unknown, renal monitoring should be considered for patients with renal impairment and for patients at risk for renal insufficiency, perhaps like patients with diabetes or the elderly Label. Fenofibric acid may increase cholesterol excretion into the bile, leading to cholelithiasis Label. If gallstones are found, fenofibric acid should be discontinued Label. Caution must be exercised over the ability of fenofibric acid to potentiate the anticoagulant effects of coumarin anticoagulants, resulting in prolongation of the prothrombin time/International Normalized Ratio (PT/INR) Label. Pancreatitis has also been reported in patients taking Fenofibrate Label. This effect may be caused by the failure of efficacy in patients with severe hypertriglyceridemia, a direct drug effect, or a secondary phenomenon mediated through biliary tract stone or sludge formation with obstruction of the common bile duct Label. Mild to moderate hemoglobin, hematocrit, and white blood cell decreases have been observed in patients following the start of fenofibrate therapy Label. However, although these levels tend to stabilize during long-term administration of the medication Label, thrombocytopenia and agranulocytosis have been observed in patients treated with fenofibrates as well Label. Scheduled monitoring of red and white blood cell counts during the first 12 months of fenofibric acid administration is subsequently recommended Label. Acute hypersensitivity reactions including Stevens-Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis requiring patient hospitalization and treatment with steroids have been reported in patients treated with fenofibrates Label. In the fenofibrate arm during the FIELD trial, occurrences of pulmonary embolus (PE) and deep vein thrombosis (DVT) were recorded at higher rates when compared to the placebo group Label. In particular, the placebo group had N=4900 and the fenofibrate group N=4895 Label. For DVT there were 48 events (1%) in the placebo group and 67 (1%) in the fenofibrate group with p=0.074 Label. While for PE, there were 32 (0.7%) events in the placebo group and 53 (1%) in the fenofibrate group with p=0.022 Label. Likewise, in the Coronary Drug Project, a higher proportion of the clofibrate group reported definite or suspected fatal or nonfatal PE or thrombophlebitis when compared to the placebo group (5.2% vs 3.3% at 5 years with p<0.01) Label. Additionally there have been postmarketing and clinical trial reports of serious paradoxical decreases in HDL cholesterol levels to as low as 2 mg/dL happening in diabetic and non-diabetic patients initiated on fibrate therapy Label. This decrease in HDL-C is accompanied by a decrease in apolipoprotein A1. Such decreases have been reported to occur within 2 weeks to years after initiation of fibrate therapy Label. The HDL-C levels remain depressed until fibrate therapy has been withdrawn; the response to withdrawal of fibrate therapy is in fact rapid and sustained Label. HDL-C levels are recommended to be checked within the first few months after initiation of fibrate therapy. In the case of severely depressed HDL-C levels being detected, fibrate therapy should be withdrawn and HDL-C levels monitored until it has returned to baseline with no intention or plan to re-initiate fibrate therapy Label. Adverse effects associated with the use of fenofibrate and fenofibric acid include abdominal pain, back pain, headache, nausea, constipation, abnormal liver tests, increased AST, increased ALT, increased creatine phosphokinase, respiratory disorder, rhinitis, diarrhea, dyspepsia, nasopharyngitis, sinusitis, upper respiratory tract infection, arthralgia, myalgia, pain in extremity, and/or dizziness Label,4. Adverse effects identified during the post-approval use period of fenofibrate include rhabdomyolysis, panrcreatitis, renal failure, muscle spasms, acute renal failure, hepatitis, cirrhosis, anemia, asthenia, and severely depressed HDL-cholesterol levels 4. As Fenofibric acid has the capability to potentiate the anticoagulant effect of coumarin anticoagulants (and subsequently prolong the PT/INR of patients), caution should be exercised when oral coumarin anticoagulants are given in conjunction with fenofibric acid. Frequent PT/INR determinations are therefore advisable until stabilized PT/INR readings are obtained
Pibrentasvir | DrugBank Online Pibrentasvir is a direct acting antiviral agent and Hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS5A inhibitor that targets the the viral RNA replication and viron assembly. In combination with Glecaprevir, pibrentastiv is a useful therapy for patients who experienced therapeutic failure from other NS5A inhibitors. In cell cultures, the emergence of amino acid substitutions at known NS5A inhibitor resistance-associated positions in HCV genotype 1a, 2a or 3a replicons led to reduced susceptibility and resistance to pibrentasvir Label. These resistance-associated amino acid substitutions included Q30D/deletion, Y93D/H/N or H58D +Y93H in genotype 1a replicons, F28S + M31I or P29S + K30G in genotype 2a replicons, and Y93H in genotype 3a replicons. Individual NS5A amino acid substitutions that reduced susceptibility to pibrentasvir include M28G or Q30D in a genotype 1a replicon and P32-deletion in a genotype 1b replicon Label.  Pibrentasvir is available as an oral combination therapy with Glecaprevir under the brand name Mavyret. This fixed-dose combination therapy was FDA-approved in August 2017 to treat adults with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotypes 1-6 without cirrhosis (liver disease) or with mild cirrhosis, including patients with moderate to severe kidney disease and those who are on dialysis 3. Mavyret is also indicated for HCV genotype 1-infected patients who have been previously treated with regimens either containing an NS5A inhibitor or an NS3/4A protease inhibitor, but not both 3. Hepatitis C viral infection often leads to decreased liver function and subsequent liver failure, causing a significantly negative impact on the patients' quality of life. The ultimate goal of the combination treatment is to achieve sustained virologic response (SVR) and cure the patients from the infection. In clinical trials, this combination therapy achieved SVR12 rate, or undetectable Hepatitis C for twelve or more weeks after the end of treatment, of ≥93% across genotypes 1a, 2a, 3a, 4, 5 and 6 Label. Indicated for the treatment of adult patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 infection without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis (Child-Pugh
A). MAVYRET is also indicated for the treatment of adult patients with HCV genotype 1 infection, who previously have been treated with a regimen containing an HCV NS5A inhibitor
Glecaprevir | DrugBank Online Glecaprevir is a direct acting antiviral agent and Hepatitis C virus (HCV) NS3/4A protease inhibitor that targets the the viral RNA replication. In combination with Pibrentasvir, glecaprevir is a useful therapy for patients who experienced therapeutic failure from other NS3/4A protease inhibitors. It demonstrates a high genetic barrier against resistance mutations of the virus. In cell cultures, the emergence of amino acid substitutions at NS3 resistance-associated positions A156 or D/Q168 in HCV genotype 1a, 2a or 3a replicons led to reduced susceptibility to glecaprevir Label. The combinations of amino acid substitutions at NS3 position Y65H and D/Q168 also results in greater reductions in glecaprevir susceptibility, and NS3 Q80R in genotype 3a patients also leads to glecaprevir resistance Label.  Glecaprevir is available as an oral combination therapy with Pibrentasvir under the brand name Mavyret. This fixed-dose combination therapy was FDA-approved in August 2017 to treat adults with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotypes 1-6 without cirrhosis (liver disease) or with mild cirrhosis, including patients with moderate to severe kidney disease and those who are on dialysis 2. Mavyret is also indicated for HCV genotype 1-infected patients who have been previously treated with regimens either containing an NS5A inhibitor or an NS3/4A protease inhibitor, but not both 2. Hepatitis C viral infection often leads to decreased liver function and subsequent liver failure, causing a significantly negative impact on the patients' quality of life. The ultimate goal of the combination treatment is to achieve sustained virologic response (SVR) and cure the patients from the infection. In clinical trials, this combination therapy achieved SVR12 rate, or undetectable Hepatitis C for twelve or more weeks after the end of treatment, of ≥93% across genotypes 1a, 2a, 3a, 4, 5 and 6 Label. Indicated for the treatment of adult patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6 infection without cirrhosis or with compensated cirrhosis (Child-Pugh
A). MAVYRET is also indicated for the treatment of adult patients with HCV genotype 1 infection, who previously have been treated with a regimen containing an HCV NS5A inhibitor
Tisagenlecleucel | DrugBank Online Tisagenlecleucel is a CD19-directed genetically modified autologous T cell immunotherapy, or a CAR-T cell therapy for B-cell acute lymphoblastic leukemia. It was granted approval by FDA in August 2017 under the market name Kymriah. Tisagenlecleucel is an immunocellular therapy that involves autologous T cells that are collected from each individual patient and genetically engineered to express a specific protein called a chimeric antigen receptor (CAR) that specifically target CD19 antigens. Modified T cells are infused back into the patient's body. These CD19-directed chimeric antigen receptors (CD19 CAR-T cells) direct the T cells to targt and kill leukiemia cells that express a specific antigen (CD19) on the cell surface. In a multicenter clinical trial involving pediatric and young adult patients with relapsed or refractory B-cell precursor ALL, the overall remission rate within three months of treatment was 83 percent 4. Indicated for the treatment of patients up to 25 years of age with B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) that is refractory or in second or later relapse Label.  Tisagenlecleucel demonstrates efficacy in re-inducing remission in patients with refractory B-cell precursor acute lymphoblastic leukemia. The sole purpose of the therapy is to eliminate
Equine Botulinum Neurotoxin F Immune FAB2 | DrugBank Online Equine Botulinum Neurotoxin F Immune FAB2 is composed of a mixture of immune globulin fragments purified from plasma of horses that were previously immunized with botulinum toxin serotype F. It is intravenously administered for the treatment of symptomatic botulism following documented or suspected exposure to botulinum neurotoxin serotypes F in adults and pediatric patients. Equine Botulinum Neurotoxin F Immune FAB2 is indicted for use in documented or suspected exposure to botulinum toxin serotype F in adults and pediatric patients [FDA Label]. Equine Botulinum Neurotoxin F Immune FAB2 binds to botulinum toxin serotype F to prevent toxicity [FDA Label]. Equine Botulinum Neurotoxin F Immune FAB2 is a mix of polyclonal antibodies for botulinum toxin type F [FDA Label]. It binds to the toxin with high-affinity and prevents binding to ganglioside anchorage sites and membrane-bound receptors on cholinergic nerve terminals. This prevents internalization of the toxin into the cell and ultimately prevents it from exerting its toxic effects. Due to the long-lasting effects of botulinum toxin, the antibodies must be administered before symptoms present to prevent toxicity. Administration of one vial of containing at least 3000 Units produced a mean Cmax of 2.37 Units/mL. Administration of two vials produced a mean Cmax of 4.29 Units/mL [FDA Label]. Equine Botulinum Neurotoxin F Immune FAB2 was found to have a mean Vd of 3.413 L after administration of one vial and 4.334 L after two vials [FDA Label]. There is no protein binding data available. There is no metabolism data available. Equine Botulinum Neurotoxin F Immune FAB2 is assumed to be broken down similarly to other proteins and antibodies in systemic circulation. No data is available on excretion of Equine Botulinum Neurotoxin F Immune FAB2. Equine Botulinum Neurotoxin F Immune FAB2 was observed to have a mean half life of 14.10 h after administration of one vial and 18.20 h after two vials [FDA Label]. Equine Botulinum Neurotoxin F Immune FAB2 was observed to have a mean clearance rate of 169
Scorpion (centruroides) immune Fab2 antivenin (equine) | DrugBank Online Centruroides (scorpion) Immune F(ab')2 (equine) is a purified preparation of immune globulin F(ab’)2 fragments that are derived from plasma of the horses immunized with venom of C. noxius, C. l. limpidus, C. l. tecomanus, and C. s. suffusus. It is intravenously administered patients with clinical signs of scorpion envenomation so that the Fab fragments bind to the toxins and limit systemic toxicity. It was approved by FDA in 2011 and is marketed under the name Anascorp 4. Anascorp is produced from equine IgG antibodies. Because initial development and use of this product in Mexico, venoms from several Centruroides species endemic to Mexico are pooled and diluted 14. This drug is a polyvalent antivenin proven to be useful against scorpion stings.
It is the first specific treatment to neutralize toxin from Centruroides scorpion stings, particularly those of the Centruroides sculpturatus in the United States 13. Envenomation by a scorpion sting can result in serious cardiovascular effects 2.
Semaglutide | DrugBank Online Semaglutide is a glucagon-like peptide 1 (GLP-1) analog used to manage type 2 diabetes along with lifestyle changes 1,17 Other members of this drug class include Exenatide and Liraglutide. Semaglutide was developed by Novo Nordisk and approved by the FDA for subcutaneous injection in December 2017.17 The tablet formulation was approved for oral administration in September 2019.16 The subcutaneous injection is administered once weekly and the tablet is administered once a day. Semaglutide offers a competitive advantage over other drugs used to manage diabetes, which may require several daily doses. Clinical trials have determined that this drug reduces glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA1c) levels and reduces body weight, proving to be effective for patients with type 2 diabetes.5 Semaglutide is indicated to improve glycemic control in adults diagnosed with type 2 diabetes mellitus, and is used as an adjunct to diet and exercise.16,17  It is important to note that semaglutide is not a suitable first-line drug for diabetes that has not been controlled by diet and exercise.
In addition, it has not been studied in patients with pancreatitis. Semaglutide is not intended for use in patients with type 1 diabetes or to treat diabetic ketoacidosis.16 Semaglutide reduces HbA1c, systolic blood pressure, and body weight.6 After 12 weeks of treatment, semaglutide decreased fasting and postprandial glucose by increasing insulin production and decreasing glucagon secretion (which is normally associated with increases in blood sugar). Semaglutide also lowers fasting triglycerides and VLDL cholesterol, exerting beneficial effects on cardiovascular health.5,13 Special precautions Semaglutide has been shown to cause medullary thyroid cell carcinoma in rodents. The relevance to humans is unknown, but its advisable not to administer this drug in those with a personal or family history of medullary thyroid carcinoma. Semaglutide also poses a risk of pancreatitis and dehydration. Patients must be adequately hydrated while on semaglutide and are advised to seek medical attention immediately in cases of abdominal pain radiating to the back. Because this drug delays gastric emptying, it is important to monitor for the efficacy or adverse effects of others drugs that are administered orally.17 Mechanism of glycemic control GLP-1 is a physiological hormone that promotes glycemic control via several different mechanisms, including insulin secretion, slowing gastric emptying, and reducing postprandial glucagon secretion. The homeostasis of glucose is dependent on hormones such as insulin and amylin, which are secreted by the beta cells of the pancreas. Semaglutide is 94% similar to human GLP-1. Analogs of this hormone such as semaglutide stimulate the synthesis of insulin3 by stimulating pancreatic islet cells and reducing glucagon secretion.3 They directly bind with selectivity to the GLP-1 receptor, causing various beneficial downstream effects that reduce blood glucose in a glucose-dependent fashion.17  Mechanism of cardiovascular benefit and weight loss In hypercholesterolemia, semaglutide is believed to reduce the progression of atherosclerosis via decreased gut permeability and decreased inflammation.7 Weight loss is believed to occur via the reduction of appetite and food cravings after semaglutide administration. 2,8 The Cmax of semaglutide was 10.9 nmol/L, with AUC of 3123.4 nmol h/L and a Tmax of 56 h in one clinical trial, achieved within 1-3 days.4,17 The absolute bioavailability is 89%.17 Steady-state concentration of the oral tablet is achieved in 4-5 weeks.10 Average steady state concentrations of semaglutide are the mean steady state concentrations after dosing at 0.5mg to 1mg range from 16 nmol/L to 30 nmol/L.19 The volume of distribution of semaglutide is 8L to 9.4L. It crosses the placenta in rats.4,17 Semaglutide binds with high affinity to plasma albumin, promoting high levels of drug stability.2 It is more than 99% bound to albumin.11,15,17 Semaglutide is cleaved at the peptide backbone, followed by β‐oxidation of the fatty acid chain.11 Naturally occurring GLP‐1 is quickly metabolized by dipeptidyl peptidase‐4 (DPP‐4) and other enzymes, which is ubiquitous in human tissues. Chemical structure modifications render semaglutide less susceptible to enzymatic degradation by gastrointestinal DPP‐4 enzymes.11 It is slowly and extensively metabolized, with about 83% of the administered dose measured in the plasma as unchanged drug. Neural endopeptidase (NEP) is another enzyme that metabolizes this drug. DPP-4 inactivates semaglutide, truncating the N-terminal segment while NEP hydrolyzes peptide bondsSix different metabolites of semaglutide have been identified in human plasma. The major metabolite, named P3, accounts for about 7.7% of an ingested dose.4 Hover over products below to view reaction partners This drug is mainly cleared by the kidneys, and is found excreted in both the urine and feces.11 The main elimination route is the urine by corresponding to 53% of an ingested radiolabeled dose, with 18.6% found in the feces. A smaller amount of 3.2% was found to be exhaled.4 Hepatic impairment does not appear to affect the clearance of this drug and dose adjustments are not required in patients with decreased liver function.11 One of the major properties of semaglutide is its long half-life of 168 h.4 The long half-life is attributed to its albumin binding. This lowers the renal clearance and protects semaglutide from metabolic breakdown.16,17 The clearance rate of semaglutide is 0.039 L/h according to one clinical study.4 On the FDA label, semaglutide clearance is reported to be about 0.05 L/h in patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus.17 The oral LD50 of semaglutide is 270 mg/kg in the rat.18  Overdose
Voretigene neparvovec | DrugBank Online Voretigene Neparvovec-rzyl (VN-rzyl) is an adeno-associated virus vector-based gene therapy.6 An adeno-associated virus is a small virus that infects humans and other primates. It is not pathogenic and it causes a very mild immune response. This type of virus is vastly used as vectors for gene therapy because they can infect dividing and quiescent cell integrating just the carried genes into the host genome without fully integrating into the genome.1 An advantage of this adeno-associated virus is the high predictability, unlike retrovirus, as they associate with a specific region of the human cellular genome localized in the chromosome 19. When used in genetic therapy, this virus is modified for the elimination of its negligible integrative capacity by the removal of rep and cap and the insertion of the desired gene with its promoter between the inverted terminal repeats.2 VN-rzyl was developed by Spark Therapeutics Inc. and FDA approved on December 19, 2017.7 VN-rzyl is indicated for the treatment of children and adult patients with confirmed biallelic RPE65 mutation-associated retinal dystrophy. The administration of VN-rzyl is conditioned to the physician determination of the presence of viable retinal cells.Label The RPE65 represents the LCA2 form of the Leber's congenital amaurosis (LCA). LCA is a group of inherited conditionts that involves retinal degeneration and severe vision loss in early childhood leading to total blindness by 30-40 years old. The LCA2 form is associated with a mutation that interferes with the isomerohydrolase activity of the retinal pigment epithelium. The isomerohydrolase activity transforms the trans-retinyl esters to 11-cis-retinal which is the natural ligand and chromophore of the opsins of rod and cones photoreceptors. In the presence of RPE65 mutations, the opsins cannot capture light or transduce it into electrical responses to initiate vision.3 Subretinal injection generates the transduction of retinal pigment epithelial cells, restoring the visual cycle.Label In clinical trials, there was a significant increase in the mean bilateral multi-luminance mobility testing scores with a shown maximum possible improvement.4 The eyes receiving the treatment presented also a more effective drive in pupillary response even 3 times greater than the baseline. There was also a significant reduction of nystagmus.3 The improved vision was determined by the ability of the treated patients to cross an obstacle course at various light levels which showed a significant amelioration.7 VN-rzyl is designed for the delivery, in the cells of the retina, of a normal copy of the gene encoding for the human retinal pigment epithelial protein whose molecular weight is 65 kDa. The delivery of this gene will allow the production of the RPE65 protein re-establishing the visual cycle and restoring the visual function.3
Testosterone undecanoate | DrugBank Online Testosterone undecanoate is the ester prodrug of testosterone and has a midchain fatty acid at the 17Beta position. 6 It is available as an intramuscular injection and as an oral capsule, and is indicated for treatment of testosterone deficiency. 14Label It should be noted that testosterone undecanoate is only indicated for treatment of hypogonadal conditions with structural or genetic etiologies and should not be used to manage "age-related hypogonadism". Label Testosterone undecanoate is indicated for replacement therapy in adult males with conditions that are linked with an absence or deficiency in endogenous testosterone production. 14Label Testosterone plays a key role in male sexual differentiation and is involved in regulation of hematopoiesis, body composition, and bone metabolism. As a result, testosterone replacement therapy in males with hypogonadism can result in improved sexual function, increased lean body mass, bone density, erythropoiesis, prostate size, and changes in lipid profiles. 6 Testosterone is produced by Leydig cells and exerts it's effects by binding to androgen receptors throughout the body. 5 Testosterone affects the voice, genitalia, mood, and influences muscle growth and protein expression. 5 Accordingly, males with low levels of testosterone often experience decreased libido, fatigue, mood changes and dysphoria. 5 Exogenous sources of testosterone are designed to mimic the effects of endogenous testosterone. The absorption of testosterone undecanoate varies based on the formulation. The intramuscular formulation of testosterone esters is suspended in oil and is absorbed from the lipid phase. Testosterone is released when tissue esterases cleave the undecanoic acid side chain. 14
The oral formulation of testosterone undecanoate is also formulated as a prodrug, is best absorbed with food and ideal absorption occurs when taken with a meal containing at least 30 g of fat. Label Circulating testosterone is highly protein bound with about 40% bound to sex hormone-binding globulin (SHBG), and a large percentage of the remaining hormone loosely bound to albumin and other plasma proteins. Only about 2% of testosterone is unbound. Label The side chain of testosterone undecanoate is cleaved by non specific esterases when it enters circulation and the undecanoic acid side chain is metabolized by the beta-oxidation pathway. 9Label The resulting Testosterone molecule is then metabolized to dihydrotestosterone (DHT) by the enzyme 5-alpha reductase. 15 DHT is reduced by 3-alpha-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase (major) and 3-beta-hydroxysteroid dehydrogenase prior to being glucuronidated and cleared by the kidneys. 15 It should be noted that testosterone is metabolized to several other 17-keto steroids in the body. Label  Hover over products below to view reaction partners The majority (~90%) of an intramuscularly administered dose of testosterone is conjugated and eliminated in the urine.
Black cohosh | DrugBank Online Black cohosh (Actaea racemosa or Cimicifuga racemosa), a member of the buttercup family, is a perennial plant which native to North America. Historical names for this plant include snakeroot, black bugbane, rattleweed, macrotys, and rheumatism weed. Black cohosh has a long history of use. Native Americans used it for its purported benefits in treating musculoskeletal pain, fever, cough, pneumonia, sluggish labor, and menstrual irregularities. European settlers were said to use black cohosh as a tonic to support female reproductive health.10 Hormone replacement therapy (HRT) is the standard treatment for early symptoms in post-menopausal women, however, increases the risk of stroke, heart diseases, as well as breast cancer in older women. Various studies have shown that the number of post-menopausal women using hormone replacement therapy is currently low and that the effects of hormone replacement therapy in reducing menopausal symptoms are not as positive as expected. For these reasons, there has been a trend toward using alternative therapies to relieve menopausal symptoms.8 Black cohosh has been associated with serious safety concerns.1 Results from studies suggest that C. racemosa possesses a central activity instead of a hormonal effect.2 The American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology guidelines on the use of botanicals, such as black cohosh, for the management of menopausal symptoms the use of for up to six months, especially in treating the symptoms of sleep and mood disturbance, and hot flushes.12 Treatment of menopausal symptoms and menstrual dysfunction 12. This agent is purported to relieve some of the vasomotor symptoms of menopause, including hot flashes and night sweats.8,10,11 A 2012 Cochrane review analyzed 16 randomized clinical trials on the effectiveness of black cohosh in reducing menopausal symptoms, including hot flushes, night sweats, vaginal dryness, and numerous combinations of symptoms which were measured by validated rating scales.8 There is currently insufficient evidence to support the use of black cohosh for menopausal symptoms.8 The studies were quite heterogeneous in design, duration, type and amount of black cohosh used, and main findings.8 A 2016 systematic review and meta-analysis of randomized clinical trials analyzed four studies of herbal and plant-based therapies that included black cohosh to treat menopausal symptoms.5 It was suggested that composite and specific phytoestrogen supplementations were associated with small reductions in the incidence of hot flashes and vaginal dryness, however, no significant reduction in night sweats.5 Although the mechanism by which black cohosh relieves menopausal symptoms is unknown, several hypotheses have been made. It is believed to act through the following mechanisms/effects:9 1) as a selective estrogen receptor modulator
 2) through serotonergic pathways
3) as an antioxidant
Baloxavir marboxil | DrugBank Online Baloxavir marboxil is an antiviral drug developed by Shionogi Co., a Japanese pharmaceutical company and Roche for the treatment of influenza A and influenza B infections. The drug was initially approved for use in Japan in February 2018 and approved by the FDA on October 24, 2018 10, 2 for the treatment of acute uncomplicated influenza in patients 12 years of age and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours Label. Baloxavir marboxil, a cap-endonuclease inhibitor, has a unique mechanism of action when compared to the currently existing neuraminidase inhibitor drug class used to treat influenza infections 1. For the treatment of influenza A and B virus infection 4,5, Label in patients 12 and older who have been symptomatic for no more than 48 hours.
Moroctocog alfa | DrugBank Online Moroctocog alfa, also known as BDDrFVIII (B domain deleted recombinant factor VIII), is a recombinant DNA-based drug with functional characteristics comparable to those of endogenous coagulation Factor VIII, the essential human blood clotting protein that is impaired in Hemophilia A. Moroctocog alfa is identical in sequence to endogenously produced Factor VIII, but does not contain the B-domain, which has no known biological function. Moroctocog alfa is produced through recombinant DNA technology and purification, resulting in a 1438 amino acid, 170 kDa protein Label. Clinical evaluation has shown that BDDrFVIII is pharmacokinetically equivalent to full-length recombinant FVIII 5,Label. Also known as Anti-Hemophilic Factor (AHF), endogenous Factor VIII is essential to the clotting process in the body due to its involvement in the clotting cascade where it is responsible for acting as a co-factor to Factor IX. Activation of Factor IX leads to a cascade of signals that results in activation of Factor X, which then results in the conversion of prothrombin to thrombin, and as a result, leads to the conversion of fibrinogen to fibrin, the fibrous protein that creates the scaffold of the clot. Replacement of Factor VIII is essential for the treatment of Hemophilia A, which is caused by mutations in the Factor VIII gene, leading to a functional deficiency or complete loss of protein. Congenital loss or deficiency of Factor VIII results in the physiologic impairment of the coagulation clotting cascade, and as a result, leads to easy bruising and bleeding. Bleeding can range in severity from minor concerns, such as nosebleeds, to more serious events such as hemorrhaging in the joints, brain, or digestive tract 4. Exogenous replacement of Factor VIII is currently the cornerstone of Hemophilia treatment and is used for the prophylaxis and control of bleeding episodes. Treatment has drastically improved since the 1960s when Factor VIII protein was primarily purified from human plasma, rather than being produced through recombinant DNA technology. Unfortunately, purification of protein from human plasma carries an increased risk of transmission of blood-borne diseases such as HIV and Hepatitis, which in part contributed to the Tainted Blood Scandal in the 1980s 3,2,6. Use of recombinant DNA-derived clotting factor treatments, such as Moroctocog alfa, has reduced this risk. Other drug products with similar structure and function to Moroctocog alfa include Antihemophilic factor human, which is purified Factor VIII from human pooled blood and contains both A- and B-subunits, and Efmoroctocog alfa, which is a fully recombinant factor VIII-Fc fusion protein which has an extended half-life compared with conventional factor VIII due to conjugation to the dimeric Fc domain of human immunoglobulin G1, a long-lived plasma protein 3. Moroctocog alfa is approved by Health Canada and by the European Medicines Agency for the control and prevention of hemorrhagic episodes and for routine and surgical prophylaxis in patients with hemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency or classic hemophilia). As it does not contain von Willebrand factor it is not indicated in von Willebrand’s disease Label. Moroctocog Alfa is approved by Health Canada for the control and prevention of hemorrhagic episodes and for routine and surgical prophylaxis in patients with hemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency or classic hemophilia). Moroctocog Alfa is also approved by the European Medicines Agency for the treatment and prophylaxis of bleeding in patients with Haemophilia A (congenital factor VIII deficiency). Antihemophilic Factor binds factor IXa along with calcium and phospholipid, which converts factor X to factor Xa to facilitate the clotting cascade.  Antihemophilic factor (AHF) is a protein found in normal plasma which is necessary for clot formation. The administration of AHF provides an increase in plasma levels of AHF and can temporarily correct the coagulation defect of patients with hemophilia A (classical hemophilia). As factor VIII is the specific clotting factor deficient in patients with hemophilia A, replacement of clotting factor with Moroctocog alfa, also known as BDDrFVIII (B domain deleted recombinant factor VIII), is the cornerstone of the prevention and treatment of bleeding for this disorder.  Cmax = 1.08±0.22 IU⋅hr/mL 5
Cmax = 1.12 (±0.19) IU/mL Label Mean steady-state volume of distribution = 65.1 (± 35.1) mL/kg Label Mean terminal elimination half-life = 11.8 (± 5.1) hours Label
Half-life = 11.2 ± 5.0 hours 5 Mean clearance = 4.21 (± 2.08) mL/h•kg Label
Tildrakizumab | DrugBank Online Tildrakizumab is a high-affinity, humanized, IgG1 κ antibody targeting interleukin 23 p19 that shows promise in the evolution of treatment strategy in chronic plaque psoriasis 3. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved ILUMYA (tildrakizumab-asmn) for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis who are candidates for systemic therapy or phototherapy in March 2018. The approved recommended dosage of ILUMYA is a subcutaneous injection of 100 mg at Weeks 0, 4, and every 12 weeks thereafter 7. A study was performed on the pharmacokinetics of this drug on various ethnicities. The pharmacokinetics of tildrakizumab were similar in Japanese, Caucasian, and Chinese subjects 5. Moderate-severe plaque psoriasis 7, Label. Tildrakuzimab is a targeted immunomodulator that decreases inflammation by inhibiting the action of various cytokines associated with plaque psoriasis, thus relieving its symptom of scaly plaques 12, Label. This drug selectively binds interleukin (IL)-23 p19 subunit of cytokine IL-23 and neutralizes its function IL-23 regulates Th17 cells and is a powerful activator of keratinocyte proliferation 4. Targeting IL-23p19 alone has been found to be a promising treatment approach in patients with moderate-to-severe chronic plaque psoriasis. Upon administration, downregulation of Th17 and Th22 cell responses occur 3. IL-23 is a naturally occurring cytokine that is involved in inflammatory and immune responses. Tildrakizumab inhibits the release of proinflammatory cytokines and chemokines Label. The mean (± SD) steady-state trough concentrations at 16 weeks post initiation of treatment ranged from 1.22 ± 0.94 mcg/mL to 1.47 ± 1.12 mcg/mL. The geometric mean (CV%) steady-state Cmax was 8.1 mcg/mL (34%) 7. The absolute bioavailability of tildrakizumab is estimated to be about 73-80% after subcutaneous administration. The peak concentration (Cmax) is reached by approximately 6 days Label. The geometric mean (CV%) volume of distribution is 10.8 L (24%) 7. The metabolic pathway of tildrakizumab has not been characterized. As a humanized IgG1/k monoclonal antibody, tildrakizumab is expected to be degraded into small peptides and amino acids via catabolic pathways in a manner similar to endogenous IgG 7. The AUCinf of dextromethorphan (CYP2D6 substrate) increased by 20% when used concomitantly
Choline salicylate | DrugBank Online Choline salicylate is an anti-inflammatory pain reliever agent that is related to aspirin. It is used to decrease swelling and to treat mild-moderate pain. It is used to treat arthritis in both children and adults. This medicine can also be used for fever 8. Choline Salicylate is the choline salt of salicylic acid, used as an analgesic, antipyretic and antirheumatic. It relieves mild to moderate pain and reduce fever and inflammation or swelling. Choline salicylate is effective in the treatment of gout, rheumatic fever, rheumatoid arthritis and muscle injuries 15. This drug is also a main ingredient in teething gels to relieve pains associated with tooth growth in the infant population 13. The UK government has regulated its use, due to toxicity in those under 16 years of age. Topical oral salicylate gels are no longer indicated for people younger than 16 years for pain associated with infant teething, orthodontic devices, cold sores, or mouth ulcers 13. The oral gel is indicated for the relief of pain and discomfort of common mouth ulcers, cold sores, denture sore spots, infant teething and mouth ulcers, and sore spots due to orthodontic devices in children 14. This is an anti-inflammatory and antipyretic medication 11, 12. If is often used in oral gel form for the relief of pain, discomfort, and inflammation caused by common mouth ulcers, cold sores, denture and sore spots, as well as mouth ulcers, and sore spots because of orthodontic devices 18. Choline salicylate relieves pain by inhibition of prostaglandin synthesis and reduces fever by acting on the hypothalamus heat-regulating center. It also inhibits the generation of impulses through the inhibition of cyclooxygenase enzyme (COX) 11, 15.  Cyclooxygenase is involved in the production of prostaglandins, in response to injury and after various other stimuli. The prostaglandins promote pain, swelling, and inflammation. The choline salicylate decreases inflammation and pain by reducing the production of these prostaglandins in the area of the mouth it is applied to 16. Onset: 1-2 hr after ingestion 12 In the oral form, choline salicylate is absorbed across the buccal mucosa. There is a need for caution not to exceed the stated dose and monitor for any signs of suggested salicylism, especially when this drug is used for infants 14. In one study, it was found that this drug was more rapidly absorbed than ASA (absorption t1/2 = 0.1 vs 0.36 h) 17. 0.15 L/kg (salicylate), and widely distributed throughout extracellular water and most tissues 18 Salicylic acid is highly (80-90%) protein bound 18.  The metabolism of salicylic acid is by glycine and phenolic or acyl glucuronate conjugation with small amounts of the drug undergoing hydroxylation 18. Extensively metabolized in the liver; inactive metabolites are excreted by the kidneys 19. Both metabolites of choline salicylate, and a small amount of intact salicylic acid are excreted, primarily in the urine [L1239]. The plasma half-life of salicylic acid is 2-4 hours 18.
Up to 15 – 30 h with larger doses due to saturation of liver metabolism capacity 19. LD50, oral in mouse: 2690mg/kg 4.
Ephedrine tannate | DrugBank Online Ephedrine was first described in western literature in 1888, as a naturally occurring component of the ephedra plant, along with pseudoephedrine.5 Ephedrine is an adrenergic receptor agonist used for its vasoconstrictive, positive chronotropic, and positive inotropic effects.8 Ephedrine and phenylephrine are still commonly used to treat hypotension but their use in other indications has decreased due to the development of more selective adrenergic agonists.6,7,9 Ephedrine was granted a type 7 FDA Approval on 29 April 2016.9
Potassium | DrugBank Online Potassium is an essential nutrient, like Calcium and Magnesium. It was identified as a shortfall nutrient by the 2015-2020 Advisory Committee of Dietary Guidelines for Americans.9 Many conditions and diseases interfere with normal body potassium balance, and underconsumption of potassium is one example. Hypokalemia (low potassium) or hyperkalemia (high potassium) may result, manifesting as various signs and symptoms. Some examples of potassium-related complications include life-threatening arrhythmia, neuromuscular dysfunction, diarrhea, nausea, and vomiting.2,6,12 Various pharmacological preparations have been formulated to replenish potassium. They are available in an assortment of tablet, injection, and other forms, depending on the setting and condition being treated. Potassium is often a key ingredient for intravenous fluids, given to patients in clinical settings for rehydration, nutrition, and replenishment of electrolytes. Examples of potassium formulations include potassium citrate, potassium chloride, and potassium with dextrose and sodium chloride.13,14,15,16 General uses of potassium Potassium is indicated to treat a variety of conditions. Firstly, it used to replenish potassium that has been depleted by conditions including but not limited to malabsorption, decreased intake, or excess sodium intake. The causes of potassium deficiency are numerous. The following indications for potassium are not comprehensive, but include the main indications for which this nutrient is used. Various products and preparations contain potassium. Potassium chloride Potassium chloride is one of the main preparations of potassium used in a clinical setting. The oral solution is indicated for the prevention and treatment of hypokalemia presenting with or without metabolic alkalosis, in patients who have failed conservative management with potassium-rich foods or diuretic dose titrations.13 The injection form of potassium chloride is indicated to replenish potassium in patients who are not feasible candidates for oral potassium. Highly concentrated potassium is intended for the treatment of potassium deficiency in fluid restricted individuals who cannot tolerate fluid volumes normally associated with injected potassium solutions that contain lower concentrations.17
Cemiplimab | DrugBank Online The U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved Cemiplimab (Libtayo), manufactured by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, on September 28, 2018.
This is the first FDA approval of a drug specifically for the treatment of advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (CSCC) 1,4. This drug is a programmed death receptor-1 (PD-1) blocking antibody indicated for the treatment of patients with metastatic cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (CSCC) or locally advanced CSCC who are not candidates for curative surgery or curative radiation Label,1. Cemiplimab inhibits tumor growth by an immune-mediated mechanism, specifically by the inhibition of the programmed death receptor 1 (PD-1), treating cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma Label, 1, 3. Binding of the programmed death receptor (PD) ligands PD-L1 and PD-L2, to the PD-1 receptor, which is found on T cells, inhibits T-cell proliferation and cytokine production. The upregulation of PD-1 ligands occurs in some tumors and signaling through this pathway may contribute to the inhibition of active T-cell immune surveillance of tumors. Cemiplimab is a recombinant human immunoglobulin G4 (IgG4) monoclonal antibody that binds to the PD-1 receptor and blocks its interaction with PD-L1 and PD-L2 ligands, causing PD-1 pathway-mediated inhibition of the immune response, including the anti-tumor immune response. In mouse tumor models, blocking PD-1 activity resulted in decreased rates of tumor growth Label. After a dose of 350 mg cemiplimab administered intravenously every 3 weeks, median steady-state concentrations (CV%) of cemiplimab ranged between a maximum concentration (Cmax,ss) of 166 mcg/mL (28%) and a minimum concentration (Cmin,ss) of 59 mcg/mL (48%). Steady-state exposure was achieved after approximately 4 months Label. The volume of distribution of cemiplimab at steady state is 5.3 L (25%) Label. The elimination half-life (CV%) at steady state is 19 days (30%) Label. Cemiplimab clearance (CV%) after the first dose is 0.32 L/day (39%) and decreases over time by 34%, resulting in a steady-state clearance (CLss) (CV%) of 0.21 L/day (39%) Label. The most common adverse reactions (incidence ≥ 20%) were fatigue, rash, and diarrhea in clinical studies Label.
Inotersen | DrugBank Online Inotersen is a transthyretin-directed antisense oligonucleotide for the treatment of the polyneuropathy caused by hereditary transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis in adults. It was FDA approved in October 2018.4 Inotersen has been shown to improve the course of neurologic disease and quality of life in patients with hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis 1. Hereditary transthyretin amyloidosis is caused by single-nucleotide variants in the gene encoding transthyretin (TTR), which lead to transthyretin misfolding and the deposition of amyloid substance systemically. Progressive amyloid accumulation may lead to multiorgan dysfunction and death 1. Inotersen is a transthyretin-directed antisense oligonucleotide indicated for treatment of the polyneuropathy of hereditary transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis in adults.4  The pharmacodynamic effects of inotersen were studied in hereditary transthyretin-mediated amyloidosis (hATTR) amyloidosis patients treated with 284 mg of inotersen via subcutaneous injection once weekly. With repeated dosing, the mean percentage decreases from baseline in serum TTR (transthyretin) from week 13 to Week 65 of treatment were measured from 68%-74% (median range: 75% to 79%). Similar TTR reductions were seen regardless of TTR mutation, sex, age, or race.4 Inotersen is an antisense oligonucleotide that causes degradation of mutant and wild-type TTR mRNA through binding to the TTR mRNA, which results in a reduction of serum TTR protein and TTR protein deposits in tissues.4 Following subcutaneous administration, inotersen is absorbed rapidly into systemic circulation in a dose-dependent fashion, with the median time to maximum plasma concentrations (Cmax) of 2 to 4 hours.4 Rapidly distributes broadly to tissues, with the highest concentrations observed in the kidney and liver. This drug does not cross the blood-brain barrier.4 Inotersen is highly bound to human plasma proteins (>94%) and the fraction bound is independent of drug concentration.4 Inotersen is metabolized by nucleases to nucleotides of various lengths.4 Mainly cleared through metabolism.4 The terminal elimination half-life is 32.3 (29.4, 35.5) days.4 Inotersen is mainly cleared through metabolism, and the total body clearance (mean and 90% confidence interval) is 3.18 (3.08, 3.29) L/h.4 Thrombocytopenia Inotersen causes reductions in platelet count that can result in sudden and unpredictable thrombocytopenia that can be life-threatening. Monitor CBC at regular intervals and adjust/pause treatment as necessary. Do not initiate treatment with this drug in patients with a platelet count below 100 x 10^9/L.4 Glomerulonephritis and Renal Toxicity Inotersen can cause glomerulonephritis that may result in dialysis-dependent renal failure4,3. It may also exacerbate pre-existing renal dysfunction. Monitor kidney function before and during treatment.4 Stroke and Cervicocephalic Arterial Dissection Inotersen may cause stroke and cervicocephalic arterial dissection.4 Inflammatory and Immune Effects Inflammatory and immune changes are an expected side effect of some antisense oligonucleotide drugs, including inotersen. In clinical studies, serious inflammatory and immune adverse reactions occurred in Inotersen-treated patients, including immune thrombocytopenia and glomerulonephritis, as well as one case of antineutrophil cytoplasmic autoantibody (ANCA)- positive systemic vasculitis.4 Liver Effects The liver is a possible site of accumulation of antisense oligonucleotides. In clinical studies, 8% of inotersen-treated patients had an increased alanine aminotransferase (ALT) at least 3 times the upper limit of normal (ULN), compared to 3% of patients on placebo; 3% of inotersen-treated patients had an ALT at least 8 times the upper limit of normal, compared to no patient on placebo. Monitor liver function tests as indicated on the FDA label.4 Hypersensitivity Reactions/Antibody Formation Most of these reactions occur within 2 hours of administration of inotersen and included headache, chest pain, hypertension, chills, flushing, dysphagia, palmar erythema, eosinophilia, involuntary choreaform movements, arthralgia, myalgia, and flu-like symptoms.4 Reduced Serum Vitamin A Levels Inotersen treatment leads to a decrease in serum vitamin A levels. Supplementation at the recommended daily allowance of vitamin A is advised for patients taking this drug .4 Cardiac QT prolongation Formal QTc studies have not been conducted with this drug. The risk of QTc prolongation with inotersen was evaluated in a randomized, placebo-controlled trial in healthy volunteers. No major changes in the mean QTc interval (>20 ms) were detected in the trial.
Larotrectinib | DrugBank Online Larotrectinib is an orally administered tropomyosin receptor kinase (Trk) inhibitor with demonstrated antineoplastic activity. Upon administration, larotrectinib binds to Trk, thereby preventing neurotrophin-Trk interaction and Trk activation, which results in both the induction of cellular apoptosis and the inhibition of cell growth in tumors that overexpress Trk. Trk, a receptor tyrosine kinase activated by neurotrophins, is mutated in a variety of cancer cell types and plays an important role in tumor cell growth and survival. Originally discovered by Array BioPharma, the agent was ultimately licensed to Loxo Oncology in 2013. Larotrectinib is another example of innovative new cancer therapy medications that target key, specific genetic biomarker drivers of cancer rather than particular types of tumors 6. Larotrectinib is a tyrosine kinase inhibitor that is currently indicated for the treatment of adult and pediatric patients with solid tumors that either a) have a neurotrophic receptor tyrosine kinase (NTRK) gene fusion without a known acquired resistance mutation, b) are metastatic or where surgical resection is likely to result in severe morbidity, and c) have no satisfactory alternative treatments or that have progressed following treatment Label. At the moment, these uses of larotrectinib are only approved under the auspices of an accelerated approval by the US FDA based on overall response rate and duration of response and continuation of support for these indications may be contingent upon the verification and description of continued clinical benefit in confirmatory trials Label.  At doses that are nine-fold greater than the recommended adult dose, larotrectinib does not elicit any QTc interval prolongation that is clinically relevant Label. Tropomysoin Receptor Kinases (TRK) like TRKA, TRKB, and TRKC elicit activities that regulate the natural growth, differentiation, and survival of neurons when they interact with endogenous neutrotrophin ligands 1,2,3,4,5. TRKA, TRKB, and TRKC are themselves encoded by the NTRK1, NTRK2, and NTRK3 genes, respectively 1,2,3,4,5. It has been discovered that chromosomal rearrangements involving in-frame fusions of these genes with various partners, translocations in the TRK kinase domains, mutations in the TRK ligand-binding site, amplifications of NTRK, or the expression of TRK splice variants can result in constitutively-activated chimeric TRK fusion proteins that can act as oncogenic drivers that promote cell proliferation and survival in tumor cell lines 1,2,3,4,5,Label. Subsequently, larotrectinib functions as an inhibitor of TRKs including TRKA, B, and C 1,2,3,4,5,Label. In in vitro and in vivo tumor models, larotrectinib demonstrated anti-tumor activity in cells with constitutive activation of TRK proteins resulting from gene fusions, deletion of a protein regulatory domain, or in cells with TRK protein overexpression 1,2,3,4,5,Label. Larotrectinib had minimal activity in cell lines with point mutations in the TRKA kinase domain, including the clinically identified acquired resistance mutation, G595R Label. Point mutations in the TRKC kinase domain with clinically identified acquired resistance to larotrectinib include G623R, G696A, and F617L Label.  The mean absolute bioavailability of larotrectinib capsules has been recorded as 34%, from a range spanning 32% to 37% Label. In adult patients who received larotrectinib capsules 100 mg twice daily, peak plasma levels Cmax were achieved at about one hour after dosing and steady-state was reached within the time span of three days Label. The mean steady-state of these administered larotrectinib capsules was Cmax 788 ng/mL and the AUC(0-24hr) was 4351 ng*h/mL Label. Concurrently, in healthy subjects, the AUC of the administered larotrectinib oral solution formulation was similar to that of the capsules and the particular Cmax was 36% greater with the oral solution Label. The AUC of larotrectinib was similar but the Cmax was reduced by 35% after oral administration of a single 100 mg capsule of larotrectinib to healthy subjects taken with a high-fat meal (approximately 900 calories, 58 grams carbohydrate, 56 grams fat and 43 grams protein) compared to the Cmax and AUC in the fasted state Label.  The mean volume of distribution Vss of larotrectinib has been documented as being 48L following intravenous administration in healthy subjects Label. Larotrectinib is approximately 70% bound to human plasma proteins in vitro and binding is independent of drug concentrations Label. The blood to plasma concentration ratio is 0.9 Label. Larotrectinib is metabolized predominantly by the CYP3A4 isoenzymes Label. Following oral administration of a single [14C] radiolabeled 100 mg dose of larotrectinib to healthy subjects, unchanged larotrectinib constituted 19% and an O-linked glucuronide constituted 26% of the major circulating radioactive drug components in plasma Label.  Following oral administration of a single [14C] radiolabeled 100 mg dose of larotrectinib to healthy subjects, 58% (5% unchanged) of the administered radioactivity was recovered in feces and 39% (20% unchanged) was recovered in urine Label.  The half-life of larotrectinib has been determined to be 2.9 hours Label. The mean clearance CL/F of larotrectinib has been documented as 98 L/h Label. Although there is no available data on larotrectinib use in pregnant women, based on literature reports in human subjects with congenital mutations leading to changes in TRK signaling, findings from animal studies, and the agent's mechanism of action it is believed that larotrectinib can cause embryo-fetal harm when administered to a pregnant woman Label. Published reports of individuals with congenital mutations in TRK pathway proteins suggest that decreases in TRK-mediated signaling are correlated with obesity, developmental delays, cognitive impairment, insensitivity to pain, and anhidrosis Label. Furthermore, animal studies data note that lacrotrectinib can cross the placenta in animals Label. Advise pregnant women of the potential risk to a fetus Label. There are no data on the presence of larotrectinib or its metabolites in human milk and no data on its effects on the breastfed child or on milk production Label. Because of the potential for serious adverse reactions in breastfed children, advise women not to breastfeed during treatment with larotrectinib and for 1 week after the final dose Label. Female patients of reproductive potential who are being treated with larotrectinib are advised to use effective contraception during larotrectinib treatment and for at least one week after the final dose Label. Males with female partners of reproductive potential are also advised to use effective contraception during larotrectinib therapy and for one week after the final dose Label. Based on histopathological findings in the reproductive tracts of female rats in a 1-month repeated-dose study, larotrectinib use may reduce fertility in females Label. The safety and effectiveness of larotrectinib in pediatric patients was established based upon data from clinical trials in adult or pediatric patients 28 days and older Label. The pharmacokinetics of larotrectinib in the pediatric population have also been determined to be similar to those seen in adults Label. Clinical studies of larotrectinib did not include sufficient numbers of subjects aged 65 and over to determine whether they respond differently from younger subjects Label. No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with mild hepatic impairment (Child-Pugh A). Larotrectinib clearance was reduced in subjects with moderate (Child-Pugh B) to severe (Child-Pugh C) hepatic impairment Label. No dose adjustment is recommended for patients with renal impairment of any severity Label. Carcinogenicity studies have not been conducted with larotrectinib Label. Larotrectinib was not mutagenic in the in vitro bacterial reverse mutation (Ames) assays, with or without metabolic activation, or in the in vitro mammalian mutagenesis assays, with or without metabolic activation Label. In vivo, larotrectinib was negative in the mouse micronucleus test Label. Fertility studies with larotrectinib have not been conducted. In a 3-month repeat-dose toxicity study in the rat, larotrectinib had no effects on spermatogenesis at 75 mg/kg/day (approximately 7 times the human exposure at the 100 mg twice daily dose) [FDA
Calaspargase pegol | DrugBank Online Asparaginase is an important agent used to treat acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) 1. Asparagine is incorporated into most proteins, and the synthesis of proteins is stopped when asparagine is absent, which inhibits RNA and DNA synthesis, resulting in a halt in cellular proliferation. This forms the basis of asparaginase treatment in ALL 1, 2, 6. Calaspargase pegol, also known as asparlas, is an asparagine specific enzyme which is indicated as a part of a multi-agent chemotherapy regimen for the treatment of ALL 3. The asparagine specific enzyme is derived from Escherichia coli, as a conjugate of L-asparaginase (L-asparagine amidohydrolase) and monomethoxypolyethylene glycol (mPEG) with a succinimidyl carbonate (SC) linker to create a stable molecule which increases the half-life and decreases the dosing frequency Label, 1. Calaspargase pegol, by Shire pharmaceuticals, was approved by the FDA on December 20, 2018 for acute lymphoblastic anemia (ALL) 3. This drug is is an asparagine specific enzyme indicated as a component of a multi-agent chemotherapeutic regimen for the treatment of acute lymphoblastic leukemia in pediatric and young adult patients age 1 month to 21 years Label. The pharmacokinetics of calaspargase pegol were examined when given in combination with multiagent chemotherapy in 124 patients with B-cell lineage ALL 3. The FDA approval of this drug was based on the achievement and maintenance of nadir serum asparaginase activity above the level of 0.1 U/mL when administering calaspargase, 2500 U/m2 intravenously, at 3-week intervals.  The effect of this drug is believed to occur by selective killing of leukemic cells due to depletion of plasma L-asparagine. Leukemic cells with low expression of asparagine synthetase are less capable of producing L-asparagine, and therefore rely on exogenous L-asparagine for survival Label. When asparagine is depleted, tumor cells cannot proliferate 6. During remission induction, one dose of SC-PEG (2500 IU/m2) results in a sustained therapeutic serum asparaginase activity (SAA) without excessive toxicity or marked differences in the proportion of patients with low end-induction minimum residual disease (MRD) 5. Pharmacodynamic (PD) response was studied through measurement of plasma and cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) asparagine concentrations with an LC-MS/MS assay (liquid chromatography–mass spectrometry). Asparagine concentration in plasma was sustained below the assay limit of quantification for more than 18 days after one dose of calaspargase pegol, 2,500 U/m2, during the induction phase of treatment. Average cerebrospinal asparagine concentrations decreased from a pretreatment concentration of 0.8 μg/mL (N=10) to 0.2 μg/mL on Day 4 (N=37) and stayed decreased at 0.2 μg/mL (N=35) 25 days after the administration of one of 2,500 U/m2 in the induction phase Label. L-asparaginase (the main component of this drug) is an enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of the amino acid L-asparagine into both aspartic acid and ammonia Label, 2. This process depletes malignant cells of their required asparagine. The depletion of asparagine then blocks protein synthesis and tumor cell proliferation, especially in the G1 phase of the cell cycle. As a result, tumor cell death occurs. Asparagine is important in protein synthesis in acute lymphoblastic leukemia (ALL) cells which, unlike normal cells, cannot produce this amino acid due to lack of the enzyme asparagine synthase 2, Label.  Pegylation decreases enzyme antigenicity and increases its half-life. Succinimidyl carbamate (SC) is used as a PEG linker to facilitate attachment to asparaginase and enhances the stability of the formulation 4, 1. SC-PEG urethane linkages formed with lysine groups are more hydrolytically stable 2. Mean Tmax (1 h): 1.7 Label. Vss (L): 2.96 Label 16.1 days Label 0.147 L/day Label Pancreatitis, hepatotoxicity, hemorrhage, and thrombosis have been observed with calaspargase pegol use Label. Pancreatitis:
Discontinue this drug in patients with pancreatitis, and monitor blood glucose.  Hepatotoxicity:
Polymyxin B sulfate | DrugBank Online Polymyxin B was discovered in the 1940s5. They are basic polypeptides of about eight amino acids and have cationic detergent action on cell membranes4. Polymyxin B is used for infections with gram-negative organisms, but may be neurotoxic and nephrotoxic4,Label. All gram-positive bacteria, fungi, and the gram-negative cocci, are resistant4. It is appropriate for treatment of infections of the urinary tract, meninges, and blood stream, caused by susceptible strains of Pseudomonas aeruginosaLabel. Polymyxin B has a narrow therapeutic index and so its use is limited and unlikely to be used first line5.
Mecasermin rinfabate | DrugBank Online Mecasermin rinfabate is approved for severe primary insulin-like growth factor (IGF) deficiency or in patients with GH gene deletion who have developed antibodies to growth hormone (GH)1. Mecasermin rinfabate is similar to Mecasermin in that both drugs contain recombinant DNA origin insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1). Mecasermin rinfabate however, is already bound to recombinant DNA origin insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3)3. The binding of IGF-1 to IGFBP-3 is said to extend the half life and reduce the clearance of IGF-1 in patients with growth hormone resistant syndromes and low levels of IGFBP-3 though this may represent <500 patients worldwide5. Mecasermin rinfabate manufactured by Insmed Incorporated under the brand name Iplex was approved by the FDA in 20058. In 2007 Insmed withdrew their application for a marketing authorization with The European Medicines Agency10. Mecasermin rinfabate was approved for treatment of severe primary insulin-like growth factor (IGF) deficiency or in patients with GH gene deletion who have developed antibodies to growth hormone (GH)1.
Severe primary IGF-1 deficiency is defined by:Label A) height standard deviation (SD) score less than or equal to 3 SD below normal B) basal IGF-1 SD score less than or equal to 3 SD below normal C) normal or above normal levels of growth hormone In 2007, Insmed (Mecasermin rinfabate's manufacturer) made an agreement with Tercica (Mecasermin's manufacturer) that Mecasermin would no longer be available for this indication but could be developed for non short stature conditions such as severe insulin resistance, myotonic muscular dystrophy, and HIV associated adipose redistribution syndrome6. Mecasermin rinfabate promotes vertical growth in pediatric patients in a similar fashion to MecaserminLabel. Mecasermin is a biosynthetic (recombinant DNA origin) form of human insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) designed to replace natural IGF-1 in pediatric patients who are deficient, promoting normalized statural growth2. Growth hormones (GH) bind to growth hormone receptors (GHR) in the liver and other tissues, which stimulates the synthesis of IGF-1. In target tissues, IGF-1 activates the IGF-1 receptor, resulting in intracellular signals that stimulate growth 4. Although many actions of the GH are mediated through IGF-1, the precise roles of GH and IGF-1 have not been fully elucidated. Patients with severe primary IGF-1 deficiency (Primary IGFD) fail to produce adequate levels of IGF-1, due to disruption of the GH pathway used to promote IGF-1 release (possible GH pathway disruptions include mutations in the GHR, post-GHR signaling pathway, and IGF-1 gene defects5. The structure of IGFBP-3 remains unsolved7. Mecasermin rinfabate supplies recombinant-DNA-origin IGF-1 (rhIGF-1) bound to recombinant-DNA-origin IGFBP-3. 80% of IGF-1 is naturally bound to IGFBP-3 so the binding of rhIGF-1 to rhIGFBP-3 increases the half life of rhIGF-1 compared to Mecasermin. rhIGF-1 binds to the Type I IGF-1 receptor. This receptor exerts intra-cellular signaling activity in a number of processes involved in statural growth, including mitogenesis in multiple tissue types, chondrocyte growth and division along cartilage growth plates, and increases in organ growth2. There is little published data on the pharmacokinetics of Mecasermin rinfabate3. Mecasermin rinfabate is injected subcutaneously and distributes rapidly throughout the body, especially in well vascularized tissue9. Approximately 1000mL/kg9. Mecasermin rinfabate is formulated as two proteins (IGF-1 and IGFBP-3) already bound together in the same way they are naturally found in the human bodyLabel. This increases the serum half life of Mecasermin1. There is little published data on the pharmacokinetics of Mecasermin rinfabate3. Mecasermin rinfabate is expected to degrade into small peptides and amino acids9. It is suspected that IGFBP-3 in Mecasermin rinfabate is broken down by serine proteases or metalloproteases3. An excretion study in monkeys showed elimination in the urine 72 hours after administration9. Half life ranges from 10 to 16 hours with a mean of 13 hours9. Mecasermin rinfabate is said to have a longer half life than Mecasermin5. Clearance ranges from 50 to 56mL/hr/kg with a mean of 53mL/hr/kg9. Mecasermin rinfabate is said to have lower clearance than Mecasermin5 Studies on carcinogenicity, genotoxicity, animal fertility, fetal development, excretion in breast milk, and use in patients over 65 years have not been performedLabel. Use in pregnant, breast feeding, or geriatric populations should be avoided as there is a lack of safety dataLabel.
Animal reproductive toxicity studies have shown increased incidence of abortion, post implantation loss, fewer viable fetuses, and an increase in fetal skeletal abnormalities9.
Insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) without insulin-like growth factor binding protein 3 (IGFBP-3) has been shown to not be mutagenic according to the Ames test and have no affect on fertility in rats given 7 times the maximum human recommended dose based on body surface areaLabel.
Ripretinib | DrugBank Online Ripretinib is a kinase inhibitor used for the treatment of advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) that has not adequately responded to other kinase inhibitors such as sunitinib and imatinib. Ripretinib, also known as Qinlock, is manufactured by Deciphera Pharmaceuticals and was initially approved by the FDA on May 15, 2020.7  It is the first drug approved as a fourth-line therapy in the specific setting of prior treatment with a minimum of 3 other kinase inhibitors.8 Ripretinib is indicated to treat adults diagnosed with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST) who have had prior therapy with at least 3 kinase inhibitors, including the imatinib.7 As a broad-spectrum kinase inhibitor, ripretinib inhibits various gene mutations, increasing progression-free survival in patients with advanced gastrointestinal stromal tumors (GIST).10,11 It is effective in treating mutations that are resistant to chemotherapy with other kinase inhibitors, such as imatinib.7 Ripretinib has the propensity to cause cardiac dysfunction and new primary cutaneous malignancy. It is important to measure cardiac ejection fraction before and during treatment as well as to perform regular dermatological assessments.7 Protein kinases play important roles in cellular function, and their dysregulation can lead to carcinogenesis.4 Ripretinib inhibits protein kinases including wild type and mutant platelet-derived growth factor receptor A (PDGFRA) and KIT that cause the majority of gastrointestinal stromal tumor (GIST).5 In vitro, ripretinib has been shown to inhibit PDGFRB, BRAF, VEGF, and TIE2 genes.2,3,7  Ripretinib binds to KIT and PDGFRA receptors with mutations on the exons 9, 11, 13, 14, 17 and 18 (for KIT mutations), and exons 12, 14 and 18 (for PDGFRA mutations).1 The “switch pocket” of a protein kinase is normally bound to the activation loop, acting as an “on-off switch” of a kinase. Ripretinib boasts a unique dual mechanism of action of binding to the kinase switch pocket as well as the activation loop, thereby turning off the kinase and its ability to cause dysregulated cell growth.1,9 Ripretinib is absorbed in the gastrointestinal tract and Tmax is achieved in 4 hours, with steady-state concentrations reached within 14 days.7 The mean volume of distribution of ripretinib is 307 L.7 Ripretinib is over 99% bound to albumin and alpha-1 acid glycoprotein.
Upadacitinib | DrugBank Online Upadacitinib is an oral Janus kinase (JAK)1-selective inhibitor and a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) used in the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis to slow down disease progression. Rheumatoid arthritis is a chronic autoimmune inflammatory disease affecting the peripheral joints. It is characterized by synovial inflammation and hyperplasia, autoantibody production, cartilage damage and bone destruction, leading to co-morbidities.4 Despite a variety of therapeutic agents available for treatment, up to 40% of the patients do not respond to current therapies, including biological therapies.6 The etiology of the disease is mostly unknown; however, the role of JAK as a driver of immune-mediated conditions was discovered, leading to the use of JAK as therapeutic targets for rheumatoid arthritis.5 To reduce dose-related toxicity (as seen with some pan-JAK inhibitors) without significantly affecting efficacy, more selective JAK1 inhibitors, upadacitinib and filgotinib, were developed.4 The FDA approved Upadacitinib in August 2019 for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate.9 In December 2019, it was additionally approved by the European Commission for the same indication in patients with inadequate response or intolerance to one or more DMARDs and can be used as monotherapy or in combination with methotrexate.10 Upadacitinib is marketed under the brand name RINVOQ™ for oral administration.9 It is currently being investigated in several clinical trials assessing its therapeutic effectiveness in other inflammatory diseases, such as psoriatic arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, ulcerative colitis, and atopic dermatitis.4 Upadacitinib is indicated for the treatment of adults with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response or intolerance to methotrexate.9 For patients who do not responded well or are intolerant to one or more disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs), upadacitinib may be used as monotherapy or in combination with methotrexate (MTX).10 Upadacitinib is a DMARD that works by inhibiting the Janus Kinases (JAKs), which are essential downstream cell signalling mediators of pro-inflammatory cytokines. It is believed that these pro-inflammatory cytokines play a role in many autoimmune inflammatory conditions, such as rheumatoid arthritis.6 In clinical trials, upadacitinib decreased the activity of pro-inflammatory interleukins, transiently increased the levels of lymphocytes, and insignificantly decreased the levels of immunoglobulins from the baseline.9 Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic autoimmune inflammatory disease that involves the interplay of several mediators, including the immune cells (mainly T- and B-lymphocytes) and pro-inflammatory cytokines, such as the tumour necrosis factor (TNF), transforming growth factor (TGF), and interleukin 6 (IL-6).4 The Janus Kinase (JAK) family plays an essential role in the normal physiological functions (such as erythropoiesis), but also the signalling of pro-inflammatory cytokines that are implicated in many immune-mediated diseases.5 The JAK family consists of four isoforms (JAK1, JAK2, JAK3, and Tyrosine Kinase 2) that each interacts with different cytokine receptors and uniquely associates with the intracellular domains of Type I/II cytokine receptors.5 JAK1 is primarily involved in the signalling transduction pathways of IL-6, IFN and the common γ -chain cytokines, including IL-2 and IL-15.8 IL-6 has been closely studied in particular, as it is a major cytokine involved in B- and T-cell differentiation and the acute phase response in inflammation.7 Upon interaction of cytokines with their cytokine receptors, the JAKs mediate the JAK-STAT signal transduction pathway in response to receptor activation. JAKs are tyrosine kinases that cause phosphorylation of several proteins, including cytokine receptors and JAKs themselves. Phosphorylation of JAKs promotes the phosphorylation and activation of the signalling molecules called STATs, leading to their nuclear translocation, binding to DNA promoters, and target gene transcription. JAK1-mediated signalling pathways ultimately promote pro-inflammatory events, such as increased proliferation and survival of immune cells, T cell differentiation, and macrophage activation.5 Upadacitinib is a selective JAK1 inhibitor that has a negligible effect on JAK3, leading to an improved drug safety profile.4 Upadacitinib blocks the cellular processes that contribute to the inflammatory conditions in rheumatoid arthritis. In human leukocytes cellular assays, upadacitinib inhibited JAK1/3-induced phosphorylation of STAT3/5 mediated by IL-6/7.9 Upadacitinib displays a dose-proportional pharmacokinetic profile over the therapeutic dose range. Following oral administration, the median time to reach Cmax (Tmax) ranges from 2 to 4 hours. The steady-state plasma concentrations of upadacitinib are reached within 4 days following multiple once-daily administrations, with minimal accumulation.9 Food intake has no clinically relevant effect on the AUC, Cmax, and Cmin of upadacitinib from the extended-release formulation.3 The volume of distribution of upadacitinib in a patient with rheumatoid arthritis and a body weight of 74 kg is estimated to be 224 L following oral administration of an extended-release formula.11 In a pharmacokinetic study consisting of healthy volunteers receiving the extended-release formulation, the steady-state volume of distribution was 294 L.1 Upadacitinib partitions similarly between plasma and blood cellular components with a blood to plasma ratio of 1.0.9 Upadacitinib is 52% bound to human plasma proteins.9 Upadacitinib predominantly undergoes CYP3A4-mediated metabolism;9 however, upadacitinib is a nonsensitive substrate of CYP3A4.3 It is also metabolized by CYP2D6 to a lesser extent.9
Ornithine aspartate | DrugBank Online Produced during the urea cycle, ornithine is an amino acid produced from the splitting off of urea from arginine. L-Ornithine allows for the disposal of excess nitrogen and acts as a precursor of citrulline and arginine.
Favipiravir | DrugBank Online Discovered by Toyama Chemical Co., Ltd. in Japan, favipiravir is a modified pyrazine analog that was initially approved for therapeutic use in resistant cases of influenza.7,9 The antiviral targets RNA-dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp) enzymes, which are necessary for the transcription and replication of viral genomes.7,12,13 Not only does favipiravir inhibit replication of influenza A and B, but the drug has shown promise in the treatment of avian influenza, and may be an alternative option for influenza strains that are resistant to neuramidase inhibitors.9,19 Favipiravir has been investigated for the treatment of life-threatening pathogens such as Ebola virus, Lassa virus, and now COVID-19.10,14,15 In 2014, favipiravir was approved in Japan to treat cases of influenza that were unresponsive to conventional treatment.9 Given its efficacy at targetting several strains of influenza, it has been investigated in other countries to treat novel viruses including Ebola and most recently, COVID-19.7,10,17 Favipiravir functions as a prodrug and undergoes ribosylation and phosphorylation intracellularly to become the active favipiravir-RTP.7,10 Favipiravir-RTP binds to and inhibits RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp), which ultimately prevents viral transcription and replication.7,8 The mechanism of action of favipiravir is novel compared to existing influenza antivirals that primarily prevent entry and exit of the virus from cells.7 The active favipiravir-RTP selectively inhibits RNA polymerase and prevents replication of the viral genome.18 There are several hypotheses as to how favipiravir-RTP interacts with RNA dependent RNA polymerase (RdRp).7 Some studies have shown that when favipiravir-RTP is incorporated into a nascent RNA strand, it prevents RNA strand elongation and viral proliferation.7 Studies have also found that the presence of purine analogs can reduce favipiravir’s antiviral activity, suggesting competition between favipiravir-RTP and purine nucleosides for RdRp binding.7 Although favipiravir was originally developed to treat influenza, the RdRp catalytic domain (favipiravir's primary target), is expected to be similar for other RNA viruses.7 This conserved RdRp catalytic domain contributes to favipiravir's broad-spectrum coverage.7 The bioavailability of favipiravir is almost complete at 97.6%.18 The mean Cmax for the recommended dosing schedule of favipiravir is 51.5 ug/mL.18 Studies comparing the pharmacokinetic effects of multiple doses of favipiravir in healthy American and Japanese subjects are below:  Japanese subjects First Dose:
Cmax = 36.24 ug/mL
tmax = 0.5 hr
AUC = 91.40 ugxhr/mL American subjects First Dose:
Cmax = 22.01 ug/mL
tmax = 0.5 hr
AUC = 44.11 ugxhr/mL Japanese Subjects Final Dose:
Cmax = 36.23 ug/mL
Tmax = 0.5 hr
AUC = 215.05 ugxhr/mL American Subjects Final Dose:
Cmax = 23.94 ug/mL
Tmax = 0.6 hr
Human Embryonic Stem Cell-derived M Cell | DrugBank Online CAStem is composed of immunity- and matrix-regulatory cells (IMRCs), also known as M cells, which can be administered through injection. These IMRCs are differentiated from human embryonic stem cells that are expanded and then harvested. These cells are currently being investigated against lung injury and fibrosis -- conditions which are outcomes of lung disorders including COVID-19.
Human Menstrual Blood-derived Stem Cells | DrugBank Online Stem cells are self-renewing and proliferate without differentiation, with the two major groups being embryonic stem cells (ESCs) and adult stem cells (ASC). Differentiation occurs under different conditions into different cell types. ESCs are from the inner cell mass of blastocysts while ASCs are deposited into adult tissues with restricted differentiation potency but also a lack of tumorigenicity.
Menstrual blood-derived stem cells (MenSCs) are mesenchymal-like ASCs which are non-invasively derived from menstrual blood from the shed endometrium of a human female. These cells possess a high rate of proliferation and multi-lineage differentiation potency.  MenSCs are special compared to older methods of adult stem cell extraction such as bone marrow stem cell extraction because MenSC extraction is a non-invasive method. Because this is a non-invasive way to obtain stem cells, it is simple and easy to obtain the stem cells with an absence of ethical issues that may come from obtaining stem cells of the embryonic kind. Mesenchymal stem cells have applications in research, therapeutic, and regenerative purposes. Similarly, MenSCs have previously demonstrated their ability to differentiate into adipocytes, cardiomyocytes, chondrocytes, hepatocytes, osteocytes, and pancreatic cells. Additionally, MenSCs express both pluripotency markers and mesenchymal stem cell-specific markers as well, making them potentially useful for research on differentiation and in regenerative medicine.
Allogenic Pooled Olfactory Mucosa-derived Mesenchymal Stem Cells | DrugBank Online Human olfactory mucosa-derived mesenchymal stem cells (OM-MSCs) reside in an accessible location of the nasal cavity and have properties of multipotency and high proliferation, which contributes to high potential for regenerative medicine. In humans, OM-MSCs are derived from the olfactory mucosa which is collected in vivo through rhinoscopy techniques and nasal forceps. OM-MSCs are also immunomodulatory and have potential for treating immunological diseases.
Currently, OM-MSCs does not have wide application as there is not yet a standard and unambiguous protocol for OM-MSC collection, isolation, and therapeutic application. OM-MSCs’ immunomodulating activities are partially related to CD4+ T-lymphocytes, B-lymphocytes, macrophages, and dendritic cells. OM-MSCs were also found to suppress cytotoxic functions of CD8 + cytotoxic lymphocytes and natural killer cells.
Calcium oxybate | DrugBank Online Gamma hydroxybutyric acid, commonly abbreviated GHB, is a therapeutic drug which is illegal in multiple countries. It is currently regulated in the US and sold by Jazz Pharmaceuticals under the name Xyrem. However, it is important to note that GHB is a designated Orphan drug (in 1985). Today Xyrem is a Schedule III drug; however GHB remains a Schedule I drug and the illicit use of Xyrem falls under penalties of Schedule I. GHB is a naturally occurring substance found in the central nervous system, wine, beef, small citrus fruits and almost all other living creatures in small amounts. It is used illegally under the street names Juice, Liquid Ecstasy or simply G, either as an intoxicant, or as a date rape drug. Xyrem is a central nervous system depressant that reduces excessive daytime sleepiness and cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy.
Potassium oxybate | DrugBank Online Gamma hydroxybutyric acid, commonly abbreviated GHB, is a therapeutic drug which is illegal in multiple countries. It is currently regulated in the US and sold by Jazz Pharmaceuticals under the name Xyrem. However, it is important to note that GHB is a designated Orphan drug (in 1985). Today Xyrem is a Schedule III drug; however GHB remains a Schedule I drug and the illicit use of Xyrem falls under penalties of Schedule I. GHB is a naturally occurring substance found in the central nervous system, wine, beef, small citrus fruits and almost all other living creatures in small amounts. It is used illegally under the street names Juice, Liquid Ecstasy or simply G, either as an intoxicant, or as a date rape drug. Xyrem is a central nervous system depressant that reduces excessive daytime sleepiness and cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy.
VA-MENGOC-BC® | DrugBank Online VA-MENGOC-BC is a meningococcal B and C vaccine and an outer membrane vesicle (OMV)-based vaccine. The OMVs contain over 100 proteins, and are derived from meningococcal group B and capsular polysaccharide of meningococcal group C. As there already exists a polysaccharide-based vaccine against meningococcal disease originating from serogroups A,C,W135, and Y, this vaccine was created for use against serogroups B and C.
Calcium alpha-Ketoisovalerate | DrugBank Online
Calcium alpha-Keto-beta-methylvaleric acid | DrugBank Online
Magnesium oxybate | DrugBank Online Gamma hydroxybutyric acid, commonly abbreviated GHB, is a therapeutic drug which is illegal in multiple countries. It is currently regulated in the US and sold by Jazz Pharmaceuticals under the name Xyrem. However, it is important to note that GHB is a designated Orphan drug (in 1985). Today Xyrem is a Schedule III drug; however GHB remains a Schedule I drug and the illicit use of Xyrem falls under penalties of Schedule I. GHB is a naturally occurring substance found in the central nervous system, wine, beef, small citrus fruits and almost all other living creatures in small amounts. It is used illegally under the street names Juice, Liquid Ecstasy or simply G, either as an intoxicant, or as a date rape drug. Xyrem is a central nervous system depressant that reduces excessive daytime sleepiness and cataplexy in patients with narcolepsy.
